<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/task.dtd">
<task id="addCustomActionHowTo">
  <title>Add a Custom Operation to an Existing Framework</title>
  <taskbody>
    <context>
      <p>This task explains how to add a custom Author operation to an existing document type.</p>
    </context>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Setup an Author sample project by following the <xref
            href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/oxygen_sdk_maven.html" format="html" scope="external"
            >instructions for installing the SDK</xref>. The framework project is
            <b>oxygen-sample-framework</b>.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>A number of classes in the <term>simple.documentation.framework.operations</term>
          package implement the <xref
            href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/ecss/extensions/api/AuthorOperation.html"
            format="html" scope="external"
            ><term>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.AuthorOperation</term></xref> interface. Depending on
          your use-case, modify one of these classes.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Pack the operation class inside a Java <term>jar</term> library.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Copy the <term>jar</term> library to the
            <filepath>[OXYGEN_DIR]/frameworks/[FRAMEWORK_DIR]</filepath> directory.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd><ph conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/Open-the-preferences-page"/>, go to <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Document Type Association</uicontrol>
          </menucascade>, and edit the document type (you need write access to the
            <filepath>[OXYGEN_DIR]</filepath>) to open the <xref
            href="../topics/the-document-type-dialog.dita#the-document-type-dialog"
              ><uicontrol>Document Type</uicontrol> configuration dialog box</xref>.</cmd>
        <substeps id="substeps_sme_tse_jb">
          <substep>
            <cmd>In the <b>Classpath</b> tab, add a new entry like:
                <codeph>${framework}/customAction.jar</codeph>.</cmd>
          </substep>
          <substep>
            <cmd>In the <b>Author</b> tab, add a new action which uses your custom operation. </cmd>
          </substep>
          <substep>
            <cmd>Mount the action to the toolbars or menus.</cmd>
          </substep>
        </substeps>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Share the modifications with your colleagues. The files which should be shared are your
            <filepath>customAction.jar</filepath> library and the <filepath>.framework</filepath>
          configuration file from the
          <filepath>[OXYGEN_DIR]/frameworks/[FRAMEWORK_DIR]</filepath> directory.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>
  </taskbody>
  <related-links>
    <link
      href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/ecss/extensions/api/AuthorOperation.html"
      format="html" scope="external"/>
  </related-links>
</task>
