<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="adding-select-all-button">
  <title>Adding a Button in Code Snippet Areas in DITA WebHelp Classic Output</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>WebHelp Classic system<indexterm>Add button in code snippets
          (DITA)</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <taskbody>
    <context>
      <p>This task will get you started with how to add an action (such as a button or link) in the
        code snippet areas that are displayed in WebHelp Classic output created from a <xref
          keyref="glossentry_ditamap"><term>DITA map</term></xref> transformation. You can then
        attach your code that does the actual processing for the action.</p>
      <p>Follow these steps:</p>
    </context>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Open the
          <filepath><term keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"/>\plugins\org.dita.xhtml\xsl\xslhtml\dita2htmlImpl.xsl</filepath>
          file.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Locate the <codeph>&lt;xsl:template match="*[contains(@class, ' topic/pre ')]"
            mode="pre-fmt"></codeph> template to check the default behavior of this template.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Open the
          <filepath><term keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"/>\plugins\com.oxygenxml.webhelp\xsl\dita\desktop\fixup.xsl</filepath>
          file.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Create a <codeph>&lt;xsl:template match="*[contains(@class, ' topic/pre ')]"
            mode="pre-fmt"></codeph> template to override the default processing.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>This new template will include your code for creating the button. It will have the
          action code that does the actual processing attached to it (this can be written in
          JavaScript, for example).</cmd>
        <info>Example of a <i>Select all</i>
          button:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;xsl:template match="*[contains(@class, ' topic/pre ')]" mode="pre-fmt">
    &lt;button onclick="SelectText(element)">Select all&lt;/button>
    &lt;script>
      function SelectText(element) {
        var text = document.getElementById(element);
        var range = document.body.createTextRange();
        range.moveToElementText(text);
        range.select();
      }
    &lt;/script>
  &lt;/xsl:template></codeblock></info>
      </step>
    </steps>
  </taskbody>
</task>
