<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/task.dtd">
<task id="author-minimize-differences-between-saved-versions">
  <title>Minimize Differences Between Versions Saved on Different Computers</title><prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>Author Editor<indexterm>whitespace handling<indexterm>versions differences</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <taskbody>
    <context><?oxy_comment_start author="Mark" timestamp="20140904T154800-0400" comment="This topic should probably mention the schema-aware formatting options in the author mode settings. It should probably also mention the role of CSS stylesheet settings. "?>The
      number of differences between versions of the same file saved by different content authors on
      different computers can be minimized by imposing the same set of formatting options when
      saving the file, for all the content authors. An example for a procedure that minimizes the
      differences is the following.<?oxy_comment_end?></context>
    <steps id="procedure-minimize-differences-between-versions-saved-in-Author">
      <step>
        <cmd>Create an <ph keyref="product"/> project file
          that will be shared by all content authors.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Set your own preferences in the following panels of the <xref
            keyref="options.preferences"><uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol> dialog</xref>:
            <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol> / <uicontrol>Format</uicontrol> and
            <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol> / <uicontrol>Format</uicontrol> /
            <uicontrol>XML</uicontrol>.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Save the preferences of these two panels in the <ph keyref="product"/> project by
          selecting the button <uicontrol>Project Options</uicontrol> in these two panels.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Save the project and commit the project file to your versioning system so all the
          content authors can use it.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Make sure the project is opened in the <uicontrol>Project</uicontrol> view.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Open and save your XML files in the <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Commit the saved XML files to your versioning system.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>
    <result>When other content authors will change the files only the changed lines will be
      displayed in your diff tool instead of one big change that does not allow to see the changes
      between two versions of the file.</result>
  </taskbody>
</task>