<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/task.dtd">
<task id="author-image-rendering-jai">
  <title>Installing Java Advanced Imaging(JAI) Image I/O Tools plug-in</title>
  <shortdesc/>
  <taskbody>
    <context>
      <p>Follow this procedure:</p>
    </context>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Start <ph keyref="product"/>
          and open the <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>About</uicontrol>
          </menucascade> dialog. Open the <ph product="authorEclipse editorEclipse"
              ><uicontrol>Installation Details</uicontrol> dialog,
              <uicontrol>Configuration</uicontrol> tab</ph><ph product="author editor"
              ><uicontrol>System properties</uicontrol> tab</ph> and look for
              <i><keyword>java.runtime.name</keyword></i> and <i><keyword>java.home</keyword></i>
          properties. Keep their values for later use.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd><xref href="http://download.java.net/media/jai-imageio/builds/release/1.1/"
            format="html" scope="external">Download</xref> the JAI Image I/O kit corresponding to
          your operating system and Java distribution (found in the
              <i><keyword>java.runtime.name</keyword></i> property). </cmd>
        <info>Please note that the JAI API is not the same thing as JAI Image I/O. Make sure you
          have installed the latter.</info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Execute the installer. When the installation wizard displays the <b>Choose Destination
            Location</b> page, fill-in the <b>Destination Folder</b> field with the value of
          the <i><keyword>java.home</keyword></i> property. Continue with the installation procedure and follow the
          on-screen instructions.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>
  </taskbody>
  <task id="task_nsv_ymy_w2">
    <title> Mac OS X Workaround</title>
    <taskbody>
      <context>
        <p>There is no native implementation of JAI Image I/O for Mac OS X 10.5 and later. However,
          the JAI Image I/O has a Java implementation fallback which also works on Mac OS X. Some of
          the image formats are not fully supported in this fallback mode, but at least the TIFF
          image format is known to be supported.</p>
      </context>
      <steps id="steps_mry_dny_w2">
        <step>
          <cmd>Download a Linux(tar.gz) distribution of JAI Image I/O from: <xref
              href="http://download.java.net/media/jai-imageio/builds/release/1.1/" format="html"
              scope="external">http://download.java.net/media/jai-imageio/builds/release/1.1/</xref>
            e.g. <filepath>jai_imageio-1_1-lib-linux-amd64.tar.gz </filepath></cmd>
        </step>
        <step>
          <cmd>In the <filepath>Oxygen/lib</filepath> directory create a directory named
              <filepath>endorsed</filepath> e.g. <filepath>Oxygen/lib/endorsed</filepath>.</cmd>
        </step>
        <step>
          <cmd>Unpack the tar.gz and navigate to the lib directory from the unpacked directory. e.g.
              <filepath>jai_imageio-1_1/lib</filepath>. Copy the jar files from
              there(<filepath>clibwrapper_jiio.jar</filepath> and
              <filepath>jai_imageio.jar</filepath>) to the <filepath>Oxygen/lib/endorsed</filepath>
            directory.</cmd>
        </step>
        <step>
          <cmd>Restart the application and the JAI Image I/O support will be up and running.</cmd>
        </step>
      </steps>
    </taskbody>
  </task>
</task>
