<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/task.dtd">
<task id="configure-xqj-datasource">
  <title>How to Configure an XQJ Data Source</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>XQJ Support<indexterm>XQJ processor configuration</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <taskbody>
    <context>Any transformer that offers an XQJ API implementation can be used when validating
      XQuery or transforming XML documents. (An example of an XQuery engine that implements the XQJ
      API is <xref href="http://www.zorba.io/" format="html" scope="external">Zorba</xref>. </context>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>In case your XQJ Implementation is native, make sure the directory containing the
          native libraries of the engine is added to your system environment variables: to
            <keyword>PATH</keyword> - on Windows, to <keyword>LD_LIBRARY_PATH</keyword> - on Linux,
          or to <keyword>DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH</keyword> - on Mac OS X. Restart <ph
            keyref="product"/> after
          configuring the environment variables.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Go to menu <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Data Sources</uicontrol>
          </menucascade>.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click the <uicontrol>New</uicontrol> button in the <uicontrol>Data Sources</uicontrol>
          panel.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Enter a unique name for the data source.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Select <uicontrol>XQuery API for Java(XQJ)</uicontrol> in the
            <uicontrol>Type</uicontrol> combo box.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Press the <uicontrol>Add</uicontrol> button to add XQJ API-specific files.</cmd>
        <info>You can manage the driver files using the <uicontrol>Add</uicontrol>,
            <uicontrol>Remove</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Detect</uicontrol>, and
            <uicontrol>Stop</uicontrol> buttons.</info>
        <stepresult><ph keyref="product"/>
          detects any implementation of <apiname>javax.xml.xquery.XQDataSource</apiname> and
          presents it in <uicontrol>Driver class</uicontrol> field.</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Select the most suited driver in the <uicontrol>Driver class</uicontrol> combo
          box.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click the <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> button to finish the data source
          configuration.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>
  </taskbody>
</task>
