<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/task.dtd">
<task id="configure-marklogic-connection">
  <title>How to Configure a MarkLogic Connection</title>
  <taskbody>
    <prereq>
      <p>Available in the Enterprise edition only.<note><ph keyref="product"/> supports MarkLogic
          version 4.0 or later.</note></p>
    </prereq>
    <context>
      <p>To configure a connection to a MarkLogic database, follow these steps:</p>
    </context>
    <steps>
      <step id="step1">
        <cmd><ph conkeyref="reusables-working-with-databases/open-ds"/></cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd><ph conkeyref="reusables-working-with-databases/click-new-connection"/></cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd><ph conkeyref="reusables-working-with-databases/unique-name-connection"/></cmd>
      </step>
      <step id="step4">
        <cmd>Select a previously configured MarkLogic data source from the <uicontrol>Data
            Source</uicontrol> drop-down menu.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step id="xdbc-step">
        <cmd>Enter the connection details. </cmd>
        <substeps>
          <substep>
            <cmd>The host name or IP address of the installed MarkLogic engine in the
                <uicontrol>XDBC Host</uicontrol> field.</cmd>
            <info><ph keyref="product"/> uses XCC connector to interact with MarkLogic XDBC server
              and requires the basic authentication schema to be set. Starting with version
              MarkLogic 4.0 the default authentication method when you create an HTTP or WebDAV
              Server is <i>digest</i>, so make sure to change it to <i>basic</i>.</info>
          </substep>
          <substep>
            <cmd>Set the port number of the MarkLogic engine in the <uicontrol>Port</uicontrol>
              field. A MarkLogic XDBC application server must be configured on the server on this
              port. This XDBC server will be used to process XQuery expressions against the server.
              Later, if you want to change the XDBC server, instead of editing the configuration
              just use the <xref
                href="../topics/marklogic-contextual-actions.dita#marklogic-contextual-actions/use-it-to-execute-xquery"
                  ><uicontrol>Use it to execute queries</uicontrol> action</xref> from Data Source
              Explorer.</cmd>
          </substep>
          <substep>
            <cmd>Set the user name to access the MarkLogic engine in the <uicontrol>User</uicontrol>
              field.</cmd>
          </substep>
          <substep>
            <cmd>Set the password to access the MarkLogic engine in the
                <uicontrol>Password</uicontrol> field.</cmd>
          </substep>
          <substep>
            <cmd>Optionally set the URL used for browsing the MarkLogic database in the
                <uicontrol>Data Source Explorer</uicontrol> view in the <uicontrol>WebDAV
                URL</uicontrol> field.</cmd>
            <info>The <uicontrol>Database</uicontrol> field specifies the database for which the
              XQuery expressions are executed. If you set this option to default, the database
              associated to the application server of the configured port is used.</info>
          </substep>
        </substeps>
      </step>
      <step id="step6">
        <cmd><ph conkeyref="reusables-working-with-databases/click-ok-connection"/></cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>To view your connection, go to the <xref
            href="../topics/relational-database-explorer.dita#relational-database-explorer"
              ><uicontrol>Data Source Explorer</uicontrol> view</xref>
          <ph conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/reopen-view-parenthesis"/> or switch to the
            <uicontrol>Database</uicontrol>
          <xref keyref="glossentry_perspective"><term>perspective</term></xref>.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>
  </taskbody>
</task>
