<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/task.dtd">
<task id="configure-documentumcms-datasource">
  <title>How to Configure a <ph
      conref="../topics/oxygenEntitiesDictionary.dita#OxygenEntities/documentumCMS"/> Data
    Source</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>Documentum (CMS) Support<indexterm>configuring a Documentum (CMS) data
          source</indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <taskbody>
    <prereq>Available in the Enterprise edition only.</prereq>
    <context>To configure a <ph
        conref="../topics/oxygenEntitiesDictionary.dita#OxygenEntities/documentumCMS"/> data source
      you need the Documentum Foundation Services Software Development Kit (<term>DFS SDK</term>)
      corresponding to your server version. The <term>DFS SDK</term> can be found in the <ph
        conref="../topics/oxygenEntitiesDictionary.dita#OxygenEntities/documentumCMS"/> server
      installation kit or it can be downloaded from <xref
        href="http://www.emc.com/utilities/globalsiteselect.jhtml?checked=true" scope="external" format="html">EMC Community
        Network</xref>.<note>The <term>DFS SDK</term> can be found in the form of an archive named,
        for example, <i>emc-dfs-sdk-6.5.zip</i> for <ph
          conref="../topics/oxygenEntitiesDictionary.dita#OxygenEntities/documentumCMS"/>
        6.5.</note></context>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Go to menu <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Data Sources</uicontrol>
          </menucascade>.</cmd>
        <stepresult>The <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol> dialog is opened at the <uicontrol>Data
            Sources</uicontrol> panel.</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the <uicontrol>Data Sources</uicontrol> panel click the <uicontrol>New</uicontrol>
          button.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Enter a unique name for the data source.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Select <uicontrol>Documentum (CMS)</uicontrol> from the driver type combo box.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Press the <uicontrol>Choose DFS SDK Folder</uicontrol> button.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Select the folder where you have unpacked the <term>DFS SDK</term> archive file.</cmd>
        <stepresult>
          <p>If you have indicated the correct folder the following Java libraries (jar files) will
            be added to the list (some variation of the library names is possible in future versions
            of the <term>DFS SDK</term>):</p>
          <ul>
            <li><filepath>lib/java/emc-bpm-services-remote.jar</filepath></li>
            <li><filepath>lib/java/emc-ci-services-remote.jar</filepath></li>
            <li><filepath>lib/java/emc-collaboration-services-remote.jar</filepath></li>
            <li><filepath>lib/java/emc-dfs-rt-remote.jar</filepath></li>
            <li><filepath>lib/java/emc-dfs-services-remote.jar</filepath></li>
            <li><filepath>lib/java/emc-dfs-tools.jar</filepath></li>
            <li><filepath>lib/java/emc-search-services-remote.jar</filepath></li>
            <li><filepath>lib/java/ucf/client/ucf-installer.jar</filepath></li>
            <li><filepath>lib/java/commons/*.jar</filepath> (multiple jar files)</li>
            <li><filepath>lib/java/jaxws/*.jar</filepath> (multiple jar files)</li>
            <li><filepath>lib/java/utils/*.jar</filepath> (multiple jar files)</li>
          </ul>
          <note>If for some reason the jar files are not found, you can add them manually by using
            the <uicontrol>Add Files</uicontrol> and <uicontrol>Add Recursively</uicontrol> buttons
            and navigating to the <filepath>lib/java</filepath> folder from the <term>DFS
            SDK</term>.</note>
        </stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click the <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> button to finish the data source
          configuration.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>
  </taskbody>
</task>
