<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/task.dtd">
<task id="configure-berkeley-connection">
  <title>How to Configure a Berkeley DB XML Connection</title>
  <!--Proofed--><prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Native XML Databases (NXD)<indexterm>database connections
              configuration<indexterm>Berkeley DB XML</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <taskbody>
    <context>
      <p><ph keyref="product"/> supports Berkeley DB XML versions <ph keyref="berkeleyVersions"/>.
        The steps for configuring a connection to a Berkeley DB XML database are as follows:</p>
    </context>
    <steps>
      <step id="step1">
        <cmd><ph conkeyref="reusable.menus/Open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to<menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Data Sources</uicontrol>
          </menucascade>.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click the <uicontrol>New</uicontrol> button in the <uicontrol>Connections</uicontrol>
          panel.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Enter a unique name for the connection.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step id="step4">
        <cmd>Select one of the previously configured data sources from the <uicontrol>Data
            Source</uicontrol> drop-down list.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Enter the connection details. </cmd>
        <substeps>
          <substep>
            <cmd>Set the path to the Berkeley DB XML <filepath>database</filepath> directory in the
                <uicontrol>Environment home directory field</uicontrol>. Use a directory with write
              access. DO NOT use the installation directory where Berkeley DB XML is installed if
              you do not have write access to that directory. </cmd>
          </substep>
          <substep>
            <cmd>Select the <uicontrol>Verbosity</uicontrol> level: <term>DEBUG</term>,
                <term>INFO</term>, <term>WARNING</term>, or <term>ERROR</term>.</cmd>
          </substep>
          <substep>
            <cmd>Optionally, you can select the check-box <uicontrol>Join existing
                environment</uicontrol>.</cmd>
            <info>If checked, an attempt is made to join an existing environment in the specified
              home directory and all the original environment settings are preserved. If that fails,
              try reconfiguring the connection with this option unchecked.</info>
          </substep>
        </substeps>
      </step>
      <step id="step6">
        <cmd>Click the <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> button to finish the connection
          configuration.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>
  </taskbody>
</task>