<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="customization-of-TEI-framework" product="editor author editorEclipse authorEclipse">
    <title>Customization of TEI Frameworks Using the Latest Sources</title>
    <taskbody>
        <context><p>The <xref href="../topics/author-teip4-doc-type.dita#author-teip4-doc-type"
          format="dita">TEI P4</xref> and <xref
          href="../topics/author-teip5-doc-type.dita#author-teip5-doc-type" format="dita">TEI
          P5</xref> frameworks are available as a public project at the following SVN repository:
        <pre>https://oxygen-tei.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/</pre></p>This project is the base for
      customizing a TEI framework.</context>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>Check out the project on a local computer from the SVN repository.</cmd>
        <info>This action is done with an SVN client application that creates a working copy of the SVN repository on a local computer.</info>
            </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Customize the TEI framework in Oxygen.</cmd>
        <substeps>
          <substep>
            <cmd>Set the Oxygen <filepath>frameworks</filepath> folder to the
                <filepath>oxygen/frameworks</filepath> subfolder of the folder of the SVN working
              copy.</cmd>
            <info>Go to menu <menucascade>
                <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>Global</uicontrol>
              </menucascade> and set the path of the SVN working copy in the option <uicontrol>Use custom frameworks</uicontrol>.</info>
          </substep>
          <substep>
            <cmd>Edit the TEI framework in the <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol> dialog.</cmd>
            <info>Go to <menucascade>
                <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>Document Type Association/Locations</uicontrol>
              </menucascade> and select <uicontrol>Custom</uicontrol>.</info>
          </substep>
          <substep>
            <cmd>Close the <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol> dialog with the <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> button.</cmd>
            <info>If the dialog is closed with the <uicontrol>Cancel</uicontrol> button, the modifications are not saved on disk.</info>
          </substep>
        </substeps>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Build a jar file with the TEI framework.</cmd>
        <info>The SVN project includes a <filepath>build.xml</filepath> file that can be used for building a jar file using the Ant tool. The command that should be used:<screen>ant -f build.xml</screen></info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Distribute the jar file to the users that need the customized TEI framework.</cmd>
        <info>The command from the above step creates a file <filepath>tei.zip</filepath> in the <filepath>dist</filepath> subfolder of the SVN project. Each user that needs the customized TEI framework will receive the <filepath>tei.zip</filepath> file and will unzip it in the <filepath>frameworks</filepath> folder of the Oxygen install folder. After restarting the Oxygen application the new TEI framework will appear in the <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Document Type Association</uicontrol>
          </menucascade>.</info>
      </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
