<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/task.dtd">
<task id="common-problem-17">
  <title>Damaged File Associations on Mac OS X</title>
  <taskbody>
    <context>
      <p>After upgrading OS X to version 10.4.x / <ph
          keyref="product"/> to version 6.x
          <ph keyref="product"/> is not
        associated anymore to the file types <ph>XML</ph>, <ph>XSL</ph>, <ph>XSD</ph>, etc. This
        worked in the previous version of <ph
          keyref="product"/>. How can I
        create the file associations again?</p>
      <p>The upgrade damaged the file associations in the LaunchService Database on your Mac OS X
        machine. Please rebuild the LaunchService Database with the following procedure. This will
        reset all file associations and will rescan the entire file system searching for
        applications that declare file associations and collecting them in a database used by
        Finder.</p>
    </context>
    <steps id="procedure-rebuild-file-associations-registry">
      <step>
        <cmd>Find all the <ph
            keyref="product"/>
          installations on your hard drive.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Delete them by dragging them to the Trash.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Clear the Trash.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Unpack the <ph
            keyref="product"/> installation
          kit on your desktop.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Copy the contents of the archive into the folder <filepath>/ Applications /
            Oxygen</filepath>.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Run the following command in a Terminal:</cmd>
        <info>
          <screen xml:space="preserve">/System/Library/Frameworks/CoreServices.framework/Versions/A/Frameworks/LaunchServices.framework/Versions/A/Support/lsregister -kill -r -domain local -domain system -domain user</screen>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Restart Finder with the following command:</cmd>
        <info>
          <screen xml:space="preserve">killall Finder</screen>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Create a XML or XSD file on your desktop.</cmd>
        <stepresult>It should take the <ph
            keyref="product"/>
          icon.</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Double click the file.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Accepting the confirmation dialog.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>
    <result><ph keyref="product"/> will
      start up and the file associations work correctly.</result>
  </taskbody>
</task>
