<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="deploying-addons">
  <title>How to Deploy a Plugin or a Framework as an <ph keyref="product"/> Add-on</title>
  <taskbody>
    <context>To deploy a plugin or a framework as an <ph keyref="product"/> add-on:</context>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Pack it as a <codeph>ZIP</codeph> file or a <abbreviated-form keyref="glossentry.jar"
          />. Please note that you should pack the entire root directory not just it's
          contents.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Digitally sign the package. Please note that you can perform this step only if you have
          created a <abbreviated-form keyref="glossentry.jar"/> at the previous step. You will need
          a certificate signed by a trusted authority. To sign the jar you can either use the
            <cmdname>jarsigner</cmdname> command line tool inside Oracle's Java Development Kit.
            (<filepath>'JDK_install_dir'/bin/jarsigner.exe</filepath>) or, if you are working with
            <abbreviated-form keyref="glossentry.ant"/>, you can use the <cmdname>signjar</cmdname>
          task (which is just a front for the <cmdname>jarsigner</cmdname> command line tool).
          <!--TODO: implement this step in maven--></cmd>
        <info>The benefit of having a signed add-on is that the user can verify the integrity of the
          add-on issuer. If you don't have such a certificate you can generate one yourself using
          the keytool command line tool. Please note that this approach is mostly recommended for
          tests since anyone can create a self signed certificate. </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Create a descriptor file. You can use a template that <ph keyref="product"/> provides.
          To use this template, go to <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>File</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol> New</uicontrol>
          </menucascade> and select the <uicontrol>Oxygen add-ons update site</uicontrol>
          template.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Copy the <codeph>ZIP</codeph> file and the descriptor file to an HTTP server. The URL
          to this location serves as the <uicontrol>Update Site</uicontrol> URL. </cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>
  </taskbody>
  <related-links>
    <link href="../topics/author-document-type-sharing.dita#author-document-type-sharing"/>
  </related-links>
</task>
