<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/task.dtd">
<task id="dg-extensions-bundle">
  <title>Configuring an Extensions Bundle</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>Author Settings<indexterm>Java API<indexterm>extensions bundle</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <taskbody>
    <context>
      <p>Starting with <ph keyref="product"/> 10.3 version a single bundle was introduced acting as
        a provider for all other extensions. The individual extensions can still be set and if
        present they take precedence over the single provider, but this practice is being
        discouraged and the single provider should be used instead. To set individual extensions go
        to <menucascade>
          <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Document Type Association</uicontrol>
        </menucascade>, double-click a document type and go to the extension tab. </p>
      <p>The extensions bundle is represented by the <xref
          href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/ecss/extensions/api/ExtensionsBundle.html"
          format="html" scope="external"
            ><apiname>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.ExtensionsBundle</apiname></xref> class. The
        provided implementation of the <codeph>ExtensionsBundle</codeph> is instantiated when the
        rules of the Document Type Association defined for the custom framework match a document
        opened in the editor. Therefor references to objects which need to be persistent throughout
        the application running session must not be kept in the bundle because the next detection
        event can result in creating another <apiname>ExtensionsBundle</apiname> instance.</p>
      <note>The Javadoc documentation of the Author API used in the example files is <xref
          href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/index.html" format="html"
          scope="external">available on the <ph
            keyref="product"/>
          website</xref>. Also it can be downloaded as a <xref
          href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/doc.zip" format="html" scope="external"
          >zip archive from the website</xref>.</note>
    </context>
    <steps id="procedure-dg-extensions-bundle">
      <step>
        <cmd>Create a new Java project, in your IDE. Create the <filepath>lib</filepath> folder in
          the Java project folder and copy in it the <filepath>oxygen.jar</filepath> file from the
            <filepath>{oXygen_installation_directory}/lib</filepath> folder.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Create the class <apiname>simple.documentation.framework.SDFExtensionsBundle</apiname>
          which must extend the abstract class
            <apiname>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.ExtensionsBundle</apiname>.</cmd>
        <info>
          <p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-java">public class SDFExtensionsBundle extends ExtensionsBundle {</codeblock>
          </p>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>A <b>Document Type ID</b> and a short description should be defined first by
          implementing the methods <apiname>getDocumentTypeID</apiname> and
            <apiname>getDescription</apiname>. The Document Type ID is used to uniquely identify the
          current framework. Such an ID must be provided especially if options related to the
          framework need to be persistently stored and retrieved between sessions.</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-java">	public String getDocumentTypeID() {
    		return "Simple.Document.Framework.document.type";
	}

	public String getDescription() {
    		return "A custom extensions bundle used for the Simple Document" + 
                    "Framework document type";
	}</codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In order to be notified about the activation of the custom Author extension in relation
          with an opened document an <xref
            href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/ecss/extensions/api/AuthorExtensionStateListener.html"
            format="html" scope="external"
              ><apiname>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.AuthorExtensionStateListener</apiname></xref>
          should be implemented. The <b>activation</b> and <b>deactivation</b> events received by
          this listener should be used to perform custom initializations and to register / remove
          listeners like <xref
            href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/ecss/extensions/api/AuthorListener.html"
            format="html" scope="external"
              ><apiname>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.AuthorListener</apiname></xref>, <xref
            href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/ecss/extensions/api/AuthorMouseListener.html"
            format="html" scope="external"
              ><apiname>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.AuthorMouseListener</apiname></xref> or <xref
            href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/ecss/extensions/api/AuthorCaretListener.html"
            format="html" scope="external"
              ><apiname>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.AuthorCaretListener</apiname></xref>. The custom
          author extension state listener should be provided by implementing the method
            <apiname>createAuthorExtensionStateListener</apiname>.</cmd>
        <info>
          <p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-java">	public AuthorExtensionStateListener createAuthorExtensionStateListener() {
    		return new SDFAuthorExtensionStateListener();
	}</codeblock>
          </p>
          <p>The <codeph>AuthorExtensionStateListener</codeph> is instantiated and notified about
            the activation of the framework when the rules of the Document Type Association match a
            document opened in the Author editor mode. The listener is notified about the
            deactivation when another framework is activated for the same document, the user
            switches to another mode or the editor is closed. A complete description and
            implementation of an
              <apiname>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.AuthorExtensionStateListener</apiname> can be
            found in the <xref href="../topics/dg-author-extension-state-listener.dita">Implementing
              an Author Extension State Listener</xref>.</p>
          <p>If Schema Aware mode is active in Oxygen, all actions that can generate invalid content
            will be redirected toward the <xref
              href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/ecss/extensions/api/AuthorSchemaAwareEditingHandlerAdapter.html"
              format="html" scope="external"
                ><codeph>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.AuthorSchemaAwareEditingHandler</codeph></xref>.
            The handler can either resolve a specific case, let the default implementation take
            place or reject the edit entirely by throwing an <xref
              href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/ecss/extensions/api/InvalidEditException.html"
              format="html" scope="external"
                ><codeph>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.InvalidEditException</codeph></xref>. The
            actions that are forwarded to this handler include typing, delete or paste.</p>
          <p>See the <xref href="../topics/dg-author-schema-aware-editing-handler.dita">Implementing
              an Author Schema Aware Editing Handler</xref> section for more details about this
            handler.</p>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Customizations of the content completion proposals are permitted by creating a schema
          manager filter extension. The interface that declares the methods used for content
          completion proposals filtering is <xref
            href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/contentcompletion/xml/SchemaManagerFilter.html"
            format="html" scope="external"
              ><apiname>ro.sync.contentcompletion.xml.SchemaManagerFilter</apiname></xref>. The
          filter can be applied on elements, attributes or on their values. Responsible for creating
          the content completion filter is the method <apiname>createSchemaManagerFilter</apiname>.
          A new <codeph>SchemaManagerFilter</codeph> will be created each time a document matches
          the rules defined by the Document Type Association which contains the filter
          declaration.</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-java">	public SchemaManagerFilter createSchemaManagerFilter() {
    		return new SDFSchemaManagerFilter();
	}</codeblock>
          <p>A detailed presentation of the schema manager filter can be found in <xref
              href="../topics/dg-author-content-completion-handler.dita">Configuring a Content
              completion handler</xref> section.</p>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>The Author supports link based navigation between documents and document sections.
          Therefore, if the document contains elements defined as links to other elements, for
          example links based on the <b>id</b> attributes, the extension should provide the means to
          find the referred content. To do this an implementation of the <xref
            href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/ecss/extensions/api/link/ElementLocatorProvider.html"
            format="html" scope="external"
              ><apiname>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.link.ElementLocatorProvider</apiname></xref>
          interface should be returned by the <apiname>createElementLocatorProvider</apiname>
          method. Each time an element pointed by a link needs to be located the method is
          invoked.</cmd>
        <info>
          <p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-java">	public ElementLocatorProvider createElementLocatorProvider() {
    		return new DefaultElementLocatorProvider();
	}</codeblock>
          </p>
          <p>The section that explains how to implement an element locator provider is <xref
              href="../topics/dg-author-link-target-reference-finder.dita">Configuring a Link target
              element finder</xref>.</p>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>The drag and drop functionality can be extended by implementing the <xref
            href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/com/oxygenxml/editor/editors/author/AuthorDnDListener.html"
            format="html" scope="external"
              ><apiname>ro.sync.exml.editor.xmleditor.pageauthor.AuthorDnDListener</apiname></xref>
          interface. Relevant methods from the listener are invoked when the mouse is dragged, moved
          over, or exits the Author editor mode, when the drop action changes, and when the drop
          occurs. Each method receives the <codeph>DropTargetEvent</codeph> containing information
          about the drag and drop operation. The drag and drop extensions are available on Author
          mode for both <ph
            keyref="product"/> Eclipse
          plugin and standalone application. The Text mode corresponding listener is available only
          for <ph keyref="product"/>
          Eclipse plugin. The methods corresponding to each implementation are:
            <apiname>createAuthorAWTDndListener</apiname>,
            <apiname>createTextSWTDndListener</apiname> and
            <apiname>createAuthorSWTDndListener</apiname>.</cmd>
        <info>
          <p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-java">	public AuthorDnDListener createAuthorAWTDndListener() {
    		return new SDFAuthorDndListener();
	}</codeblock>
          </p>
          <p>For more details about the Author drag and drop listeners see the <xref
              href="../topics/dg-author-dnd-listener.dita">Configuring a custom Drag and Drop
              listener</xref> section.</p>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Another extension which can be included in the bundle is the reference resolver. In our
          case the references are represented by the <b>ref</b> element and the attribute indicating
          the referred resource is <b>location</b>. To be able to obtain the content of the referred
          resources you will have to implement a Java extension class which implements the <xref
            href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/ecss/extensions/api/AuthorReferenceResolver.html"
            format="html" scope="external"
              ><apiname>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.AuthorReferenceResolver</apiname></xref>. The
          method responsible for creating the custom references resolver is
            <apiname>createAuthorReferenceResolver</apiname>. The method is called each time a
          document opened in an Author editor mode matches the Document Type Association where the
          extensions bundle is defined. The instantiated references resolver object is kept and used
          until another extensions bundle corresponding to another Document Type is activated as
          result of the detection process.</cmd>
        <info>
          <p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-java">	public AuthorReferenceResolver createAuthorReferenceResolver() {
    		return new ReferencesResolver();
	}</codeblock>
          </p>
          <p>A more detailed description of the references resolver can be found in the <xref
              href="dg-author-references-resolver.dita">Configuring a References Resolver</xref>
            section.</p>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>To be able to dynamically customize the default CSS styles for a certain <xref
            href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/ecss/extensions/api/node/AuthorNode.html"
            format="html" scope="external"
              ><apiname>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.node.AuthorNode</apiname></xref> an
          implementation of the <xref
            href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/ecss/extensions/api/StylesFilter.html"
            format="html" scope="external"
              ><apiname>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.StylesFilter</apiname></xref> can be provided.
          The extensions bundle method responsible for creating the <codeph>StylesFilter</codeph> is
            <apiname>createAuthorStylesFilter</apiname>. The method is called each time a document
          opened in an Author editor mode matches the document type association where the extensions
          bundle is defined. The instantiated filter object is kept and used until another
          extensions bundle corresponding to another Document Type is activated as a result of the
          detection process.</cmd>
        <info>
          <p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-java">	public StylesFilter createAuthorStylesFilter() {
    		return new SDFStylesFilter();
	}</codeblock>
          </p>
          <p>See the <xref href="../topics/dg-author-css-styles-filter.dita">Configuring CSS styles
              filter</xref> section for more details about the styles filter extension.</p>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In order to edit data in custom tabular format implementations of the <xref
            href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/ecss/extensions/api/AuthorTableCellSpanProvider.html"
            format="html" scope="external"
              ><apiname>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.AuthorTableCellSpanProvider</apiname></xref> and
            <xref
            href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/ecss/extensions/api/AuthorTableColumnWidthProvider.html"
            format="html" scope="external"><apiname>the
              ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.AuthorTableColumnWidthProvider</apiname></xref> interfaces
          should be provided. The two methods from the <codeph>ExtensionsBundle</codeph> specifying
          these two extension points are <apiname>createAuthorTableCellSpanProvider</apiname> and
            <apiname>createAuthorTableColumnWidthProvider</apiname>.</cmd>
        <info>
          <p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-java">	public AuthorTableCellSpanProvider createAuthorTableCellSpanProvider() {
    		return new TableCellSpanProvider();
	}
	
	public AuthorTableColumnWidthProvider 
          createAuthorTableColumnWidthProvider() {
    		return new TableColumnWidthProvider();
	}</codeblock>
          </p>
          <p>The two table information providers are not reused for different tables. The methods
            are called for each table in the document so new instances should be provided every
            time. Read more about the cell span and column width information providers in <xref
              href="dg-table-cell-spanning-provider.dita">Configuring a Table Cell Span
              Provider</xref> and <xref href="dg-table-column-width-provider.dita">Configuring a
              Table Column Width Provider</xref> sections.</p>
          <p>If the functionality related to one of the previous extension point does not need to be
            modified then the developed <xref
              href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/ecss/extensions/api/ExtensionsBundle.html"
              format="html" scope="external"
                ><apiname>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.ExtensionsBundle</apiname></xref> should not
            override the corresponding method and leave the default base implementation to return
              <b>null</b>.</p>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>An XML vocabulary can contain links to different areas of a document. In case the
          document contains elements defined as link you can choose to present a more relevant text
          description for each link. To do this an implementation of the <xref
            href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/ecss/extensions/api/link/LinkTextResolver.html"
            format="html" scope="external"
              ><apiname>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.link.LinkTextResolver</apiname></xref> interface
          should be returned by the <apiname>createLinkTextResolver</apiname> method. This
          implementation is used each time <xref
            href="../concepts/dg-oxy-link-text.dita#dg-oxy-link-text">the oxy_link-text()
            function</xref> is encountered in the CSS styles associated with an element.</cmd>
        <info>
          <p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-java">public LinkTextResolver createLinkTextResolver() {
  return new DitaLinkTextResolver();
}</codeblock>
          </p>
          <p><ph keyref="product"/> offers built in implementations for DITA and DocBook: <xref
              href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/ecss/extensions/dita/link/DitaLinkTextResolver.html"
              format="html" scope="external"
                ><apiname>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.dita.link.DitaLinkTextResolver</apiname></xref>
            <xref
              href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/ecss/extensions/docbook/link/DocbookLinkTextResolver.html"
              format="html" scope="external"
                ><apiname>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.docbook.link.DocbookLinkTextResolver</apiname></xref></p>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Pack the compiled class into a jar file.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Copy the jar file into the <filepath>frameworks / sdf</filepath> directory.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Add the jar file to the Author class path.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Register the Java class by clicking on the <uicontrol>Extensions</uicontrol> tab. Press
          the <uicontrol>Choose</uicontrol> button and select from the displayed dialog the name of
          the class: <apiname>SDFExtensionsBundle</apiname>.</cmd>
        <info>
          <p conref="../topics/dg-java-files.dita#dg-java-files/sdf_project"/>
        </info>
      </step>
    </steps>
  </taskbody>
  <related-links>
    <link
      href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/ecss/extensions/api/ExtensionsBundle.html"
      format="html" scope="external"/>
  </related-links>
</task>
