<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/task.dtd">
<task id="dg-file-templates">
  <title>Configuring New File Templates</title><prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>Customization Support<indexterm>document type associations (advanced customization
              tutorial)<indexterm>new file templates</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <taskbody>
    <context>
      <p>You will create a set of document templates that the content authors will use as starting
        points for creating <i>Simple Document Framework</i> books and articles.</p>
      <p>Each Document Type Association can point to a directory, usually named
          <filepath>templates</filepath>, containing the file templates. All files found here are
        considered templates for the respective document type. The template name is taken from the
        file name, and the template type is detected from the file extension.</p>
    </context>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Go to the <filepath>[oxygen-install-dir]\frameworks\sdf</filepath> directory and create
          a directory named <filepath>templates</filepath>.</cmd>
        <stepresult>The directory tree of the documentation framework now
          is:<codeblock>oxygen
    frameworks
        sdf
            schema
            css
            templates</codeblock></stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the <filepath>templates</filepath> directory create two files: a file for the
            <i>book</i> template and another one for the <i>article</i> template.</cmd>
        <stepresult>
          <p>The <filepath>Book.xml</filepath> file:
            <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?&gt;
&lt;book xmlns="http://www.oxygenxml.com/sample/documentation" 
xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" 
xmlns:abs="http://www.oxygenxml.com/sample/documentation/abstracts"&gt;
    &lt;title&gt;Book Template Title&lt;/title&gt;
    &lt;section&gt;
        &lt;title&gt;Section Title&lt;/title&gt;
        &lt;abs:def/&gt;
        &lt;para&gt;This content is copyrighted:&lt;/para&gt;
        &lt;table&gt;
            &lt;header&gt;
                &lt;td&gt;Company&lt;/td&gt;
                &lt;td&gt;Date&lt;/td&gt;
            &lt;/header&gt;
            &lt;tr&gt;
                &lt;td/&gt;
                &lt;td/&gt;
            &lt;/tr&gt;
        &lt;/table&gt;
    &lt;/section&gt;
    &lt;/book&gt;</codeblock></p>
          <p>The <filepath>Article.xml</filepath> file:</p>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?&gt;
&lt;article 
    xmlns="http://www.oxygenxml.com/sample/documentation" 
    xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"&gt;
    &lt;title&gt;&lt;/title&gt;
    &lt;section&gt;
        &lt;title&gt;&lt;/title&gt;
        &lt;para&gt;&lt;/para&gt;
        &lt;para&gt;&lt;/para&gt;
    &lt;/section&gt;        
&lt;/article&gt;</codeblock>
          <p>You can also use <xref href="../topics/editor-variables.dita">editor variables</xref>
            in the template files' content and they will be expanded when the files are
              opened.<note>You should avoid using the
                <codeph>${cfd}</codeph>,<codeph>${cf}</codeph>,<codeph>${cfu}</codeph>, and
                <codeph>${cfdu}</codeph> editor variables when you save your documents in a data
              base.</note></p>
        </stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Open the Document Type dialog for the <b>SDF</b> framework and click the
            <uicontrol>Templates</uicontrol> tab. In the <uicontrol>Templates directory</uicontrol>
          text field, introduce the <filepath>${frameworkDir} / templates</filepath> path. As you
          have already seen before, it is recommended that all the file references made from a
          Document Type Association to be relative to the <filepath>${frameworkDir}</filepath>
          directory. Binding a Document Type Association to an absolute file (e. g.:
          "C:\some_dir\templates") makes the association difficult to share between users.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>To test the templates settings, go to
            <uicontrol>File</uicontrol>/<uicontrol>New</uicontrol> to display the
            <uicontrol>New</uicontrol> dialog. The names of the two templates are prefixed with the
          name of the Document Type Association (<b>SDF</b> in this case). Selecting one of them
          should create a new XML file with the content specified in the template file.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>
  </taskbody>
</task>