<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/task.dtd">
<task id="dg-xml-catalogs">
  <title>Configuring XML Catalogs</title><prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>Customization Support<indexterm>document type associations (advanced customization
              tutorial)<indexterm>XML Catalogs</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <taskbody>
    <context>In the XML sample file for <b>SDF</b> you did not use a
        <keyword>xsi:schemaLocation</keyword> attribute, but instead you let the editor use the
      schema from the association. However there are cases in which you must refer for instance the
      location of a schema file from a remote web location and an Internet connection may not be
      available. In such cases an XML catalog may be used to map the web location to a local file
      system entry. The following procedure presents an example of using an XML catalogs, by
      modifying our <filepath>sdf.xsd</filepath> XML Schema file from the <xref href="../topics/dg-sdf-files.dita#dg-sdf-files">Example Files Listings</xref>.</context>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Create a catalog file that will help the parser locate the schema for validating the
          XML document. The file must map the location of the schema to a local version of the
          schema.</cmd>
        <stepxmp>
          <p>Create a new XML file called <filepath>catalog.xml</filepath> and save it into the
              <filepath>{oXygen_installation_directory} / frameworks / sdf</filepath> directory. The
            content of the file should be:</p>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;?xml version="1.0"?&gt; 
&lt;catalog xmlns="urn:oasis:names:tc:entity:xmlns:xml:catalog"&gt;
    &lt;uri name="http://www.oxygenxml.com/SDF/abs.xsd"
            uri="schema/abs.xsd"/&gt;
    &lt;uri name="http://www.oxygenxml.com/SDF/abs.xsd" 
               uri="schema/abs.xsd"/&gt;
&lt;/catalog&gt;</codeblock>
        </stepxmp>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Add catalog files to your Document Type Association using the Catalogs tab from the
          Document Type dialog.</cmd>
        <info/>
      </step>
    </steps>
    <result>
      <p>To test the catalog settings, restart <ph
          keyref="product"/> and try to
        validate a new sample <b>Simple Documentation Framework</b> document. There should be no
        errors.</p>
    </result>
    <example>
      <p>The <filepath>sdf.xsd</filepath> schema that validates the document refers the other file
          <filepath>abs.xsd</filepath> through an <keyword>import</keyword> element:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;xs:import namespace=
 "http://www.oxygenxml.com/sample/documentation/abstracts" 
 schemaLocation="http://www.oxygenxml.com/SDF/abs.xsd"/&gt;</codeblock>
      <p>The <codeph>schemaLocation</codeph> attribute references the <filepath>abs.xsd</filepath>
        file:</p>
      <codeblock>xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.oxygenxml.com/sample/documentation/abstracts
    <ph>http://www.oxygenxml.com/SDF/abs.xsd</ph>"/&gt;</codeblock>
      <p>The catalog mapping is:</p>
      <codeblock>http://www.oxygenxml.com/SDF/abs.xsd -&gt; schema/abs.xsd</codeblock>
      <p>This means that all the references to <ph>http://www.oxygenxml.com/SDF/abs.xsd</ph> must be
        resolved to the <filepath>abs.xsd</filepath> file located in the <filepath>schema</filepath>
        directory. The URI element is used by URI resolvers, for example for resolving a URI
        reference used in an XSLT stylesheet.</p>
    </example>
  </taskbody>
</task>