<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="docbook-pdf-output-customization">
    <title>DocBook to PDF Output Customization</title>
    <shortdesc>Main steps for customization of PDF output generated from DocBook XML
        documents.</shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p>When the default layout and output look of the DocBook to PDF transformation need to
                be customized, the following main steps should be followed. In this example a
                company logo image is added to the front matter of a book. Other types of
                customizations should follow some similar steps.</p>
        </context>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>Create a custom version of the DocBook title spec file.</cmd>
                <info>
                    <p>You should start from a copy of the file
              <filepath>[Oxygen-install-dir]/frameworks/docbook/xsl/fo/titlepage.templates.xml</filepath>
            and customize it. The instructions for the spec file can be found <xref
              href="http://www.sagehill.net/docbookxsl/TitlePagePrint.html#PrintTitlepageSpecfile"
              format="html" scope="external">here.</xref>
          </p>
                    <p>An example of spec file:</p>
                    <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;t:titlepage-content t:side="recto"&gt;
    &lt;mediaobject/&gt;
    &lt;title
        t:named-template="book.verso.title"
        font-size="&amp;hsize2;"
        font-weight="bold"
        font-family="{$title.font.family}"/&gt;
    &lt;corpauthor/&gt;
      ...
&lt;/t:titlepage-content&gt;</codeblock>
                </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Generate a new XSLT stylesheet from the title spec file from the previous
                    step.</cmd>
                <info>Apply
                        <filepath>[Oxygen-install-dir]/frameworks/docbook/xsl/template/titlepage.xsl</filepath>
                    to the title spec file. The result is an XSLT stylesheet, let's call it
                        <filepath>mytitlepages.xsl</filepath>.</info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Import <filepath>mytitlepages.xsl</filepath> in a <xref
                        href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/demo/DocBook_Customization.html"
                        format="html" scope="external">DocBook customization layer</xref>.</cmd>
                <info>The customization layer is the stylesheet that will be applied to the XML
                    document. The <filepath>mytitlepages.xsl</filepath> should be imported with an
                    element
                    like:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;xsl:import href="dir-name/mytitlepages.xsl"/&gt;</codeblock></info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Insert logo image in the XML document.</cmd>
                <info>The path to the logo image must be inserted in the
                        <apiname>book/info/mediaobject</apiname> element of the XML document.</info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Apply the customization layer to the XML document.</cmd>
                <info>A quick way is duplicating the transformation scenario <b>DocBook PDF</b> that
          comes with Oxygen and set the customization layer in <xref
            href="../topics/xslt-tab.dita#xslt-tab/xml-xslt-tabs"
            product="author authorEclipse developer developerEclipse editor editorEclipse">the
              <b>XSL URL</b> property of the scenario</xref><ph product="authorSDK">the <b>XSL
              URL</b> property of the scenario</ph>.</info>
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
    <related-links>
        <link href="http://www.sagehill.net/docbookxsl/PrintCustomEx.html" format="html" scope="external">
      <desc>The book <b>DocBook XSL: The Complete Guide</b> by <xref href="http://www.sagehill.net/"
          format="html" scope="external">Bob Stayton</xref> contains more details about customizing the PDF
        output.</desc>
    </link>
        <link href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/demo/DocBook_Customization.html" format="html" scope="external">
      <desc>Video demonstration for creating a DocBook customization layer in Oxygen.</desc>
    </link>
    <link href="http://oxygenxml.com/demo/DocBook_Customization.html" format="html" scope="external"/>
    </related-links>
</task>
