<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="task_qjg_g1d_xp">
    <title>Insert a Reusable Conent Component</title>
    <shortdesc/>
    <taskbody>
        <context>You can insert a reusable content component that you <xref
        keyref="dita.create-reusable-component">created using the <ph keyref="product"/>
        <uicontrol>Create Reusable Component ...</uicontrol> action</xref>.<p>
        <note type="caution">This procedure is for inserting reusable components created using the
            <ph keyref="product"/> Create Reusable Component ... action. It assumes certain things
          about the structure of the reusable content file that may not be true of reusable content
          created by other methods. It may not provide the expected results when used with files
          that do not have this structure. </note>
      </p><note>
        <p>The Insert Reusable Content action creates a DITA <codeph>conref</codeph> to insert the
          content, and creates a parent element for the conref attribute based on the type of the
          reusable element in the reusable component file. This ensures that the correct element is
          use to create the conref, however, that element must still be inserted at a point in the
          current topic where that element type is permitted. </p>
      </note></context>
        <steps>
      <step id="step_hny_w4t_1q">
        <cmd>Place the insertion point where you want the reusable component inserted. Note that a
          reusable component must be inserted in a location that can accept the reusable content
          element.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Choose <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>DITA</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Insert Reusable Component...</uicontrol>
          </menucascade>. <wintitle>The Insert Reusable Component</wintitle> dialog is
          displayed.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Locate the reusable content file you want to use and click
            <uicontrol>Insert</uicontrol>. </cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
