<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="task_c5m_tzc_xp">
    <title>Creating an Index in DITA</title>
    <shortdesc/>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p>In DITA, indexes are created from <codeph>indexterm</codeph> elements. You can insert
        index term elements:</p>
      <ul id="ul_tf2_tr1_bq">
        <li>In the header of a topic. In paginated media (such as a printed book or a PDF, this will
          result in an index entry that point to the page on which the topic starts, even if it is
          not the page on which the indexed term occurs. </li>
        <li>In the <codeph>topicref</codeph> element in a map that references the topic. This will
          apply those index terms to that topic only when used in that map. This allows you to index
          topics differently in different publications. In paginated media, index entries will point
          to the page on which the topic starts.</li>
        <li>In the body of a topic. In paginated media, this will result in an index entry that
          point to the page on which the <codeph>indexterm</codeph> element occurs, even if that is
          not the page on which the topic starts.</li>
      </ul>
      <p>To add index terms to the text of a topic of the topic header, <xref
          keyref="dita.edit-topics">create the elements as you normally would in <ph
            keyref="product"/></xref>. To add index terms to a map, open the map in the editor and
        add the elements as you normally would in a topic.</p>
      <p>In some media, indexes will be generated automatically when index entries are found in the
        source. For other media, such as books, you may need to tell DITA where to place the index.
        For instance, to add an index to a bookmap, you need to add an <codeph>indexlist</codeph>
        element to the <codeph>backmatter</codeph> of the book.</p>
        </context>
        <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Open your <xref keyref="dita.book-map">bookmap</xref> in the <wintitle>DITA Maps
            Manager</wintitle>.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Right click on the book map icon and select <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Append Child</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Backmatter...</uicontrol>
          </menucascade>. The Insert Reference dialog appears. </cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Press <uicontrol>Insert and Close</uicontrol> to insert the <codeph>backmatter</codeph>
          element.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Right click on the <codeph>backmatter</codeph> element and create a
            <codeph>booklists</codeph> element using <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Append Child</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Booklists...</uicontrol>
          </menucascade>.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Use the same steps to create a <codeph>indexlist</codeph> element. </cmd>
      </step>
        </steps>
    <result>
      <note type="caution">Adding <codeph>index</codeph> entries and an <codeph>indexlist</codeph>
        to you project creates an instruction to the DITA publishing routines to create an index.
        There is no guarantee that all DITA output types or third party customizations will obey
        that instruction or create the index the way you want it. Modifying the output may be
        necessary to get the result you want. </note>
    </result>
    </taskbody>
</task>
