<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="task_zmd_lzc_xp">
    <title>Creating a Book in DITA</title>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p>If you want to create a traditional book in DITA, you can use a book map to organize
        your topics into a book. A DITA book map is a specialized type of map intended for creating
        output that is structured like a book. A book map allows you to add book-specific elements
        such as <codeph>frontmatter</codeph>, <codeph>part</codeph>, <codeph>chapter</codeph>,
          <codeph>appendix</codeph>, and <codeph>backmatter</codeph> to the map. How the these
        book-specific elements are processed for publication is up to the processing script for each
        media. See the DITA documentation for details.  </p>
      <p>You can find additional support for creating books in DITA in the DITA for Publishers
        plugin, which is include with <ph keyref="product">.</ph></p>
      <p>To create a book in DITA using a book map:</p>
        </context>
        <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Create a new book map. <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>File</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>New...</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Framework templates</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol> DITA map</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>map</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol> Bookmap</uicontrol>
          </menucascade>.</cmd>
      </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Create the structure of your book by adding the appropriate book sections and
          defining containers for chapters and any appendices. To add sections to a book map, or
          children to a section, right click on the book map or section icon and choose
            <uicontrol>Append child</uicontrol>. The selections offered in the <uicontrol>Append
            child</uicontrol> and <uicontrol>Insert after</uicontrol> menus will adjust depending on
          the element they are applied to. Consult the DITA documentation to fully understand the
          structure of a DITA book map and where to create each element. </cmd>
            </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Create special elements like an <xref keyref="dita.index">index</xref> and a <xref
            keyref="dita.table-of-contents">table of contents</xref>. The index and table of
          contents  will be generated by the build process based on the content of the map and the
          topics it points to. </cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd><xref keyref="dita.add-topic-to-map">Add topics</xref> to your chapters to add content
          to your book. You may find it easier to manage if you <xref keyref="dita.submaps">use
            sub-maps</xref> to create the content of your chapters. This will keep your book map
          from becoming long and difficult to manage. </cmd>
      </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
