<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="eppo-reuse-content">
  <title>Insert a Reusable Content Component</title>
  <taskbody>
    <context>You can insert a reusable content component that you <xref
        keyref="dita_create-reusable-component">created using the <ph keyref="product"/>
        <uicontrol>Create Reusable Component</uicontrol> action</xref>.<p>
        <note type="caution">This procedure is for inserting reusable components created using the
            <ph keyref="product"/>
          <uicontrol>Create Reusable Component</uicontrol> action. It assumes certain things
          about the structure of the reusable content file that may not be true of reusable content
          created by other methods. It may not provide the expected results when used with files
          that do not have this structure. </note>
      </p><note>
        <p>The <uicontrol>Insert Reusable Content</uicontrol> action creates a DITA
            <codeph>conref</codeph> to insert the content, and creates a parent element for the
            <codeph>conref</codeph> attribute based on the type of the reusable element in the
          reusable component file. This action ensures that the correct element is used to create
          the <codeph>conref</codeph>. However, that element must still be inserted at a point in
          the current topic where that element type is permitted.</p>
      </note></context>
    <steps>
      <step id="step_hny_w4t_1q">
        <cmd>Place the insertion point where you want the reusable component inserted. Note that a
          reusable component must be inserted in a location that can accept the reusable content
          element.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Select <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>DITA</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Insert Reusable Component</uicontrol>
          </menucascade>. <wintitle>The Insert Reusable Component</wintitle> dialog box is
          displayed.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Locate the reusable content file you want to use and click
            <uicontrol>Insert</uicontrol>.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>
  </taskbody>
</task>
