<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="flagging-dita-content">
    <title>Flag DITA Content in WebHelp Output</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>WebHelp Responsive system<indexterm>Flag DITA content</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>WebHelp Classic system<indexterm>Flag DITA content</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
      <p>Flagging content in WebHelp output involves defining a set of images that will be used for
        marking content across your information set.</p>
      <p>To flag DITA content, you need to create a filter file that defines properties that will be
        applied on elements to be flagged. Generally, flagging is supported for <xref
          keyref="glossentry_block-element"><term>block elements</term></xref> (such as paragraphs),
        but not for phrase-level elements within a paragraph. This ensures that the images that will
        flag the content are easily scanned by the reader, instead of being buried in text.</p>
      <p>Follow this procedure:</p>
    </context>
        <steps>
            <step>
        <cmd>Create a DITA filter file in the directory where you want to add the file. Give the
          file a descriptive name, such as <filepath>audience-flag-build.ditaval</filepath>.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Define the property of the element you want to be flagged. For example, if you want to
          flag elements that have the <codeph>audience</codeph> attribute set to
            <codeph>programmer</codeph>, the content of the DITAVAL file should look like the
          following example:</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?> 
&lt;val>
  &lt;prop att="audience" val="programmer" action="flag"
 img="D:\resource\delta.gif" alt="sample alt text"/>
&lt;/val></codeblock>
        </info>
        <info>Note that for an element to be flagged, at least one attribute-value pair needs to
          have a property declared in the DITAVAL file.</info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Specify the DITAVAL file in the <uicontrol>Filters</uicontrol> tab of the
          transformation scenario.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Run the transformation scenario.</cmd>
      </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
