<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="generate-certificate">
  <title>Generate a Testing Certificate for Signing an Applet</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Oxygen XML Author Component<indexterm>Web deployment<indexterm>Signing an
              Applet</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <taskbody>
    <context>
      <p>All jar files of an applet deployed on a remote Web server must be signed with the same
        certificate before the applet is deployed. The following steps describe how to generate a
        test certificate for signing the jar files. We will use the tool called
          <keyword>keytool</keyword>, which is included in the Oracle Java Development Kit.</p>
    </context>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Create a <term>keystore</term> with a RSA encryption key.</cmd>
        <info>
          <p>Invoke the following in a command line
            terminal:<codeblock>keytool -genkey -alias myAlias -keystore keystore.pkcs -storetype PKCS12 -keyalg RSA -keysize 2048 -dname "cn=your name here, ou=organization unit name,  o=organization name, c=US"</codeblock></p>
          <p>This command creates a <term>keystore</term> file called
              <filepath>keystore.pkcs</filepath>. The certificate attributes are specified in the
              <codeph>dname</codeph> parameter: common name of the certificate, organization unit
            name (for example, <i>Purchasing</i> or <i>Sales Department</i>), organization name,
            country.</p>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Generate a self-signed certificate.</cmd>
        <info>
          <p>Invoke the following in a command line
            terminal:<codeblock>keytool -selfcert -alias myAlias -keystore keystore.pkcs -storetype PKCS12</codeblock></p>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Optionally display the certificate details in a human readable form.</cmd>
        <info>
          <p>First, the certificate must be exported to a separate file with the following
            command:<codeblock>keytool -export -alias myAlias -keystore keystore.pkcs -storetype PKCS12 -file certfile.cer</codeblock></p>
          <p>The certificate details are displayed with the
            command:<codeblock>keytool -printcert -file certfile.cer</codeblock></p>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Edit the <filepath>default.properties</filepath> file and fill-in the parameters that
          hold the path to <filepath>keystore.pkcs</filepath> file (<codeph>keystore</codeph>
          parameter), <term>keystore</term> type (<codeph>storetype</codeph> parameter, with
            <codeph>JSK</codeph> or <codeph>PKCS12</codeph> as possible values), alias
            (<codeph>alias</codeph> parameter) and password (<codeph>password</codeph>
          parameter).</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>The jar files are automatically signed during the <term>package</term> phase of the
          Maven build.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>
  </taskbody>
</task>
