<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/task.dtd">
<task id="howto-custom-protocol-plugin">
  <title>How to Write A Custom Protocol Plugin</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Oxygen SDK<indexterm>Custom Protocol</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Plugins<indexterm>Custom Protocol</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <taskbody>
    <context>
      <p>To create a custom protocol <xref keyref="glossentry_plugin"><term>plugin</term></xref>,
        follow these steps:</p>
    </context>
    <steps id="procedure-custom-protocol">
      <step>
        <cmd>Write the handler class for your protocol that implements the
            <apiname>java.net.URLStreamHandler</apiname> interface.</cmd>
        <info>Be careful to provide ways to encode and decode the URLs of your files.</info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Write the plugin class by extending <xref
            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/exml/plugin/Plugin.html"
            format="html" scope="external"
          ><apiname>ro.sync.exml.plugin.Plugin</apiname></xref>.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Write the plugin extension class that implements the <xref
            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/exml/plugin/urlstreamhandler/URLStreamHandlerPluginExtension.html"
            format="html" scope="external"
              ><apiname>ro.sync.exml.plugin.urlstreamhandler.URLStreamHandlerPluginExtension</apiname></xref>
          interface.</cmd>
        <info>
          <p>It is necessary that the plugin extension for the custom protocol implements the
              <apiname>URLStreamHandlerPluginExtension</apiname> interface. Without it, you cannot
            use your plugin, because <ph keyref="product"/> is not able to find the protocol
            handler.</p>
          <p>You can choose also to implement the <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/exml/plugin/urlstreamhandler/URLChooserPluginExtension.html"
              format="html" scope="external"><apiname>URLChooserPluginExtension</apiname></xref>
            interface. It allows you to write and display your own customized dialog box for
            selecting resources that are loaded with the custom protocol.</p>
          <p>An implementation of the extension <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/exml/plugin/urlstreamhandler/URLHandlerReadOnlyCheckerExtension.html"
              format="html" scope="external"
              ><apiname>URLHandlerReadOnlyCheckerExtension</apiname></xref> allows you to:</p>
          <ul>
            <li>Mark a resource as read-only when it is opened.</li>
            <li>Switch between marking the resource as read-only and read-write while it is
              edited.</li>
          </ul>
          <p>It is useful when opening and editing CMS resources.</p>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Write the <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath> descriptor file.</cmd>
        <info>Remember to set the name of the plugin class to the one from the second step and the
          plugin extension class name with the one you have chosen at step 3.</info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Create a <xref keyref="glossentry_jar"><term>JAR</term></xref> archive with all these
          files.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Install your new plugin in the <filepath>plugins</filepath> subfolder of the <ph
            keyref="product"/> install
          folder.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>
  </taskbody>
</task>