<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/task.dtd">
<task id="installation-instructions-windows" >
    <title>Windows Installation</title>
    <shortdesc>Windows installation procedure.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>Installation <indexterm>Windows installation</indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
    <taskbody>
        <context>The following steps describe the installation procedure of <ph
                keyref="product"/>, valid for
            Windows:</context>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>Download the <ph keyref="executableInstall"/> installation kit and run
          it.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd> Follow the instructions presented in the installation program. </cmd>
                <info>
                    <p>The user preferences are stored in the <ph product="editor"
                                ><filepath>com.oxygenxml</filepath></ph><ph product="author"
                                ><filepath>com.oxygenxml.author</filepath></ph><ph
                            product="developer"><filepath>com.oxygenxml.developer</filepath></ph><ph
                            product="diff">
                            <filepath>com.oxygenxml.diff</filepath>
                        </ph><ph product="svnClient">
                            <filepath>com.syncrosvnclient</filepath>
                        </ph> subfolder of the folder that is the value of the
                            <codeph>APPDATA</codeph> Windows variable for the user that starts the
                        application.</p>
                    <note>
                        <p>To specify a different Java Virtual Machine for <ph keyref="product"/> to
              use, set the home folder of the desired Java Virtual Machine in one of the
                <codeph>JAVA_HOME</codeph> or <codeph>JDK_HOME</codeph> Windows variables. In case
                <codeph>JAVA_HOME</codeph> and <codeph>JDK_HOME</codeph> are not set, the <ph
                keyref="product"/> launcher looks for a JVM installed in a standard location on your
              computer and uses it to start the application. If you installed the kit that includes
              a Java Virtual Machine, rename or remove the <filepath>jre</filepath> subdirectory of
              the installation directory for the <codeph>JAVA_HOME</codeph> or
                <codeph>JDK_HOME</codeph> variables to take effect.</p>
                    </note>
                </info>
            </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Copy to clipboard the license key you have received by email and paste it in the <ph
            keyref="product"/> license dialog.</cmd>
        <info>
          <note>
            <p>If you have difficulties installing the product, use the (<ph product="editor"
                >oxygen.zip</ph><ph product="author">oxygenAuthor.zip</ph><ph product="developer"
                >oxygenDeveloper.zip</ph><ph product="diff">oxygenXMLDiff.zip</ph><ph
                product="svnClient">syncroSVNClient.zip</ph>) archive distribution. Just unzip it in
              a directory where you have write permissions and use the product launchers.</p>
          </note>
        </info>
      </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
