<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/task.dtd">
<task id="procedure-install-eclipse-update-site">
  <title>Eclipse 3.4 - 4.2 Plugin Installation - The Update Site Method</title>
  <shortdesc>Installation procedure for the Eclipse plugin in Eclipse 3.4 - 4.2 with the Update Site
    method. </shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Installation<indexterm>Eclipse<indexterm>update site method (Eclipse 3.4 - 4.2)
            </indexterm>
          </indexterm>
        </indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <taskbody>
    <?oxy_comment_start author="Mark" timestamp="20140803T215842-0400" comment="I downloaded Eclipse 4.4. When I launched an Oxygen project, I got a message saying recommended versions are  3.4 - 3.8 and 4.2 - 4.3. The instructions only mention 3.4 -4.2. Because the instructions do no warn that Oxygen may not work with the latest Eclipse version, I did not check the version when I downloaded it. It did seem to work with 4.4, but I did not do anything very complicated to test.

We should put an explicit warning that the current version of Eclipse may not have been tested with the current verison of Oxygen.

I edited the install instructions based on what I saw in 4.4. I have not investigated to see what version they changed in, but it does seem like we might have different install procedures based on the eclipse version the user has. In that case, we might consider referring the user to the Eclipse instrauctions rather than trying to keep in sync with the Eclipse interface. 

What will be the approved version of Eclipse for Oxygen 16.1?"?>
    <steps>
      <?oxy_comment_end?>
      <step>
        <cmd>Start Eclipse. </cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Choose the <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol><?oxy_comment_start author="Mark" timestamp="20140803T213400-0400" comment="Edited menu text to match what I see in Eclipse. Version: Luna Release (4.4.0)
Build id: 20140612-0600"?>Install
              New Software...<?oxy_comment_end?></uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Available Software</uicontrol>
          </menucascade> menu option. </cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd><?oxy_comment_start author="Mark" timestamp="20140803T213557-0400" comment="Edited to match Eclipse."?>Press
            <uicontrol>Add ...</uicontrol> in the <uicontrol>Available Software</uicontrol>
          dialog.<?oxy_comment_end?>
        </cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Enter <filepath product="editorEclipse"
            >http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/Eclipse/site.xml</filepath>
          <filepath product="authorEclipse"
            >http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Author/Eclipse/site.xml</filepath>
          <filepath product="developerEclipse"
            >http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Developer/Eclipse/site.xml</filepath> into the
            <uicontrol>Location</uicontrol> field of the <wintitle>Add Site</wintitle> dialog.
        </cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Press <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol>.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Select the <uicontrol product="editorEclipse">oXygen XML Editor</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol product="authorEclipse">oXygen XML Author</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol product="developerEclipse">oXygen XML Developer</uicontrol> checkbox.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Press<?oxy_comment_start author="Mark" timestamp="20140803T213915-0400" comment="Edited to match interface."?>
          <uicontrol>Next ></uicontrol> and follow through the rest of the installation wizard.
          <?oxy_comment_end?></cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Restart Eclipse when prompted. </cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Verify that <ph keyref="product"/> is installed correctly selecting <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>File</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>New</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Other...</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol product="editorEclipse">oXygen XML Editor</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol product="authorEclipse">oXygen XML Author</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol product="developerEclipse">oXygen XML Developer</uicontrol>
          </menucascade>File -&gt; New -&gt; Other -&gt; oXygen -&gt; XML Project.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        
        <cmd>When prompted for a license key, enter the license information received in the
          registration email. </cmd><info><?oxy_comment_start author="Mark" timestamp="20140804T133845-0400" comment="This is what I observed for Windows. I assume it is true for all platforms?"?>Note
          that if you already have a native version of <ph keyref="product"/> installed on your
          computer, you will not be prompted for a license key for the Eclipse version. The exiting
          license key will be used.<?oxy_comment_end?>
        </info>
      </step>
    </steps>
  </taskbody>
</task>
