<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/task.dtd">
<task id="installation-instructions-macosx" >
    <title>OS X Installation</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>Installation <indexterm>OS X installation</indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
    <taskbody>
        <context>The following steps describe the installation procedure of <ph keyref="product"/>,
      valid for OS X:</context>
        <steps>
            <step>
        <cmd>Download the OS X Installation package (<ph keyref="archiveInstallMac"/>).</cmd>
        <info>The compressed file should be recognized and expanded by the web browser (Safari). If
          it is not automatically expanded, you can expand it manually by double clicking it.</info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In <uicontrol>Finder</uicontrol>, move the expanded folder to your
            <filepath>Applications</filepath> folder. </cmd>
        <stepresult><ph keyref="product"/> is now installed.</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Start <ph keyref="product"/>, using one of the following  methods:</cmd>
        <choices id="choices_wz3_qnk_x4">
          <choice>
            <p>Double click Oxygen.app</p>
          </choice>
          <choice>Run <codeph product="editor">sh oxygenMac.sh</codeph><codeph product="author">sh
              oxygenAuthorMac.sh</codeph><codeph product="developer">sh
              oxygenDeveloperMac.sh</codeph><codeph product="svnClient">sh
              syncroSVNClientMac.sh</codeph> on the command line. </choice>
        </choices>
        <info>
          <note type="notice">You can start more than one instance on the same computer with the
            following command that should be execby using the following command for each new
            instance:<screen xml:space="preserve">open -n <ph keyref="executableMac"/></screen></note>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>To license you copy of <ph keyref="product"/>, go to <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Register...</uicontrol>
          </menucascade> to enter your <xref keyref="install.license-key">license key</xref>.</cmd>
        <info>
          <note>
            <p>To avoid an unpredictable behavior of the cursor, use a fixed-size font, for example
              Monaco. You can find more details about this behaviour <xref
                href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/forum/topic64.html" format="html" scope="external"
                >here</xref>.<draft-comment author="Mark">This issue was reported in 2003 and the
                last entry on the thread (which sounds like an isolated incident) was in 2009. Is
                this still an issue? If so, it belongs in troubleshooting, not here.
              </draft-comment></p>
          </note>
        </info>
      </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
