<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/task.dtd">
<task id="merge-branch">
  <title>Reintegrate a Branch</title>
  <taskbody>
    <prereq id="reintegrate-merge-prereq">
      <p>There are some conditions that apply to reintegrate a branch:<ul>
          <li>The server must support merge tracking.</li>
          <li>The source branch (to be reintegrated) must be coherently synchronized with its parent
            branch. This means that all revisions between the branching point and the last revision
            merged from the parent branch to the child branch must be merged to the latter one
            (there must be no missing revisions in-between).</li>
          <li>The working copy <b>must not</b> contain the following:<ul id="ul_tbg_4lg_34">
              <li>Local modifications.</li>
              <li>A mixture of revisions (all items must point to the same revision).</li>
              <li>Sparse directories (all directories must be of <b>infinity</b> depth).</li>
              <li>Switched items.</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li>The revision of the working copy must be greater than or equal to the last revision of
            the parent branch with which the child branch was synchronized.</li>
        </ul><note type="tip">You can use <xref
            href="../topics/pre-merge-checks.dita#pre-merge-checks">the <term>pre-merge
              checks</term> option</xref> to make sure these conditions are fulfilled.</note></p>
      <p>This method is useful when you have a feature branch on which the development has concluded
        and it should be merged back into its parent branch. Since you have kept the feature branch
        synchronized with its parent, the latest versions of them will be absolutely identical
        except for your feature branch changes. These changes can be reintegrated into the parent
        branch by using a working copy of it and the <uicontrol>Reintegrate a branch</uicontrol>
        option.</p>
      <p>This method uses the <i>merge-tracking</i> features of <ph keyref="apacheSubversion"/> to
        automatically calculate the correct revision ranges and to perform additional checks that
        will ensure that the branch to be reintegrated has been fully updated with its parent
        changes. This ensures that you do not accidentally undo work that others have committed to
        the parent branch since the last time you synchronized the child branch with it. After the
        merge, all branch development will be completely merged back into the parent branch, and the
        child branch will be redundant and can be deleted from the repository.<note type="tip"
          >Before reintegrating the child branch it is recommended to synchronize it with its parent
          branch one more time, to help avoid any possible conflicts.</note></p>
      <p>To reintegrate a child branch into its parent branch, follow these steps:</p>
    </prereq>
    <steps>
      <step id="start-wizard">
        <cmd>Go to menu <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Tools</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Merge</uicontrol>
          </menucascade>.</cmd>
        <stepresult>The <uicontrol>Merge</uicontrol> wizard is opened.</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Select the <uicontrol>Reintegrate a branch</uicontrol> option.</cmd>
        <info>
          <note>This option is not available if the selected working copy item (or if it is a
            directory, any of the items inside of it) has any type of modification. This is because
            it is mandatory for the target item to have no modifications.</note>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step id="pre-merge-checks-step">
        <cmd>It is recommended that you select the <uicontrol>Perform pre-merge best practices
            checks of the working copy target</uicontrol> option to make sure that the working copy
          target item is ready for the merge operation.</cmd>
        <substeps id="substeps_b4c_vqr_4r">
          <substep>
            <cmd>Press the <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol> button.</cmd>
            <stepresult>If the <uicontrol>Perform pre-merge best practices checks of the working
                copy target</uicontrol> option is selected, <xref
                href="../topics/pre-merge-checks.dita#pre-merge-checks">the <uicontrol>Pre-Merge
                  Checks</uicontrol> wizard page</xref> is displayed.<note>If errors are found you
                need to solve them before proceeding.</note></stepresult>
          </substep>
        </substeps>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Press the <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol> button.</cmd>
        <stepresult>The <uicontrol>Reintegrate a branch</uicontrol> wizard page is
          displayed.</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the <b>Child branch (URL)</b> text box, enter <xref
            href="../topics/entering-local-paths-urls.dita#entering-local-paths-urls/url-section"
            >the URL of the child <term>branch</term> to be reintegrated</xref>. This means that the
          URL must belong to the same repository as your working copy that was created from the
          parent branch.</cmd>
        <info><ph id="merge_browse_source_repository">You may also click the
              <uicontrol>Browse</uicontrol> button to browse the repository and find the desired
            branch. If you have previously merged from this branch, then you can simply use the drop
            down menu, which displays a history of previously used URLs.</ph><note type="tip"><ph
              id="merge-source-peg-revision">You can also specify a <xref
                href="../topics/using-peg-revisions.dita#using-peg-revisions"><term>peg
                  revision</term></xref> at the end of the URL (for example,
                <codeph>URL@rev1234</codeph>).</ph> The peg revision specifies both the peg revision
            of the URL and the latest revision that will be considered for merging. By default, the
              <codeph>HEAD</codeph> revision is assumed.</note></info>
        <stepresult><ph id="options-set-result">The <xref
              href="../topics/merge-options.dita#merge-options"><uicontrol>Merge Options</uicontrol>
              wizard page</xref> is displayed that allows you to configure options for the
            operation.</ph><note>Since a <i>reintegrate merge</i> is so specialized, most of the
            merge options are not available, except for those in the <uicontrol>File
              Comparison</uicontrol> category.</note></stepresult>
      </step>
      <step id="perform-merge">
        <cmd>Press the <uicontrol>Merge</uicontrol> button.</cmd>
        <stepresult>The merge operation is performed.</stepresult>
      </step>
    </steps>
    <result id="merge-result">
      <p>If the merge is completed successfully, all the changes corresponding to the selected
        revisions should be merged in your working copy.</p>
    </result>
    <postreq id="merge-postreq">
      <p>It is recommended to look at the results of the merge, in the working copy, to review the
        changes and see if it meets your expectations. Since merging can sometimes be complicated,
          <xref href="../topics/resolve-merge-conflicts.dita#resolve-merge-conflicts" format="dita"
          >you may need to resolve conflicts</xref> after making major changes.<note type="note"><ph
            id="commit-merge-result">The merge result is only in your local working copy and needs
            to be committed to the repository for it to be available to others.</ph></note></p>
    </postreq>
  </taskbody>
</task>
