<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/task.dtd">
<task id="synchronize-branch">
  <title>Synchronize a Branch</title>
  <taskbody>
    <context>
      <p>While working on your own branch, other people on your team might continue to make
        important changes in the parent branch (which can be the <term>trunk</term> itself or any
        other branch). It is recommended to periodically duplicate those changes in your branch to
        make sure your changes are compatible with them. This is done by performing a
          <term>synchronize merge</term>, which will bring your branch up-to-date with any changes
        made to its ancestral parent branch since your branch was last created or synchronized.
        Subversion is aware of the history of your branch and can detect when it split away from the
        parent branch.</p>
      <p>Frequently keeping your branch in sync with the parent branch helps you to prevent
        unexpected conflicts when the time comes for you to duplicate your changes back into the
        parent branch. The synchronization uses <term>merge tracking</term> to skip all those
        revisions that have already been merged, thus a sync merge can be repeated periodically to
        fetch all the latest changes of the parent branch to keep up-to-date with it.</p>
      <p>
        <note type="important">It is recommended to synchronize the whole working copy that was
          created from the child branch (the root of the working copy), rather than just a part of
          it.</note>
      </p>
      <p>After running the <term>synchronize merge</term>, your working copy from the child branch
        now contains new local modifications, and these edits are duplications of all of the changes
        that have happened on the <term>trunk</term> since you first created your branch. At this
        point, your private branch is now synchronized with the trunk.</p>
      <p>To synchronize your branch with its parent branch, follow these steps: </p>
    </context>
    <steps id="steps_ejx_brz_h4">
      <step id="start-wizard">
        <cmd>Go to <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Tools</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Merge</uicontrol>
          </menucascade>.</cmd>
        <stepresult>The <uicontrol>Merge</uicontrol> wizard is opened.</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Select the <uicontrol>Synchronize branch</uicontrol> option.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step conref="merge-revisions-range.dita#merge-revisions-range/pre-merge-checks-step">
        <cmd/>
      </step>
      <step id="merge_wizard_second_page">
        <cmd>Press the <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol> button.</cmd>
        <stepresult>The <uicontrol>Synchronize branch</uicontrol> wizard page is
          displayed.</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the <b>Parent branch (URL)</b> text box, enter <xref
            href="../topics/entering-local-paths-urls.dita#entering-local-paths-urls/url-section"
            >the URL of the <term>branch</term> from which you created your branch</xref>. This
          means that the URL must belong to the same repository as your working copy that was
          created from the child branch.</cmd>
        <info>
          <ph
            conref="merge-revisions-range.dita#merge-revisions-range/merge_browse_source_repository"/>
          <note type="tip"><ph
              conref="merge-revisions-range.dita#merge-revisions-range/merge-source-peg-revision"/>
            The peg revision specifies both the peg revision of the URL and the latest revision that
            will be considered for merging. By default, the <codeph>HEAD</codeph> revision is
            assumed.</note></info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd><ph conref="merge-revisions-range.dita#merge-revisions-range/config-options-ph"/></cmd>
        <stepresult><ph conref="merge-revisions-range.dita#merge-revisions-range/options-set-result"
            /><note>The <uicontrol>Ignore ancestry / Disable merge tracking</uicontrol> option is
            not available for this merge type, since a synchronization merge should always be
            recorded in the destination branch.</note></stepresult>
      </step>
      <step conref="merge-revisions-range.dita#merge-revisions-range/perform-merge">
        <cmd/>
      </step>
    </steps>
    <result conref="merge-revisions-range.dita#merge-revisions-range/merge-result"/>
    <postreq conref="merge-revisions-range.dita#merge-revisions-range/merge-postreq"/>
  </taskbody>
</task>
