<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/task.dtd">
<task id="upgrading-standalone-application" >
    <title>Upgrading the Standalone Application</title>
    <taskbody>
        <prereq>Upgrading to a new version might require a new license key. To check if your license
      key is compatible with the new version, select <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Check for New Version</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>. Note that the application needs an Internet connection to check the license
        compatibility.<note product="author editor developer">Any customization that was applied to
        a <xref href="../topics/predefined-document-types.dita#predefined-document-types"
          format="dita">predefined document type</xref> will be removed by an upgrade.</note>If
      there is a previous version of <ph keyref="product"/> already installed on your computer, it
      can coexist with the new one, which means you don't have to uninstall it. <ph
        product="author editor developer">However, if you choose to uninstall the older version
        please note that all the files from its install directory will be removed, including any
        modification in Author frameworks files, XSLT stylesheets, XML catalogs, and templates. If
        you have modified any files in that directory, it is recommended to keep the older version
        until you are sure you don't need it anymore. </ph>The user preferences are stored in a
      different directory. They will not be removed and will be imported automatically in the new
      version at the first application launch.</prereq>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>Download the install kit of the new version.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Create a new folder under <ph product="editor">
                        <filepath>/../oxygen</filepath>
                    </ph>
                    <ph product="author">
                        <filepath>/../oxygenAuthor</filepath>
                    </ph>
                    <ph product="developer">
                        <filepath>/../oxygenDeveloper</filepath>
                    </ph>
                    <ph product="diff">
                        <filepath>/../oxygenXMLDiff</filepath>
                    </ph>
                    <ph product="svnClient">
                        <filepath>/../syncrosvnClient</filepath>
                    </ph> e. g. <ph product="editor"> /../oxygen/</ph><ph product="author">
                        /../oxygenAuthor/</ph><ph product="developer">
                            /../oxygenDeveloper/</ph><ph product="diff"> /../oxygenXMLDiff/</ph><ph
                        product="svnClient"> /../syncrosvnClient/</ph><ph
                        conref="../topics/oxygenEntitiesDictionary.dita#OxygenEntities/minorVersion"
                    /></cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Extract the content of the install kit into the new folder.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>If you have defined <ph
                        keyref="product"/> in
                    the system PATH, modify it to point to the new installation folder.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Start <ph
                        keyref="product"/>
                </cmd>
                <stepresult>This will test that the application can start and that your license is
                    recognized by the upgrade installation.</stepresult>
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
