<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="webapp-plugin-prototyping">
  <title>Setting Up a Development Environment for <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> Plugins</title>
  <shortdesc>This procedure describes a development environment that can be used to increase your
    productivity in writing plugins for the <ph keyref="webappProduct"/>.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Oxygen XML Web Author Component<indexterm>Set up a development
            environment</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <taskbody>
    <prereq>
      <p>You will need a recent Eclipse EE.</p>
    </prereq>
    <context>
      <p>Developing a plugin for the <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> might require repetitive
        coding-testing cycle. Since the <xref
          href="http://oxygenxml.com/oxygen_webapp_running_and_testing.html" format="html"
          scope="external">process of building a whole SDK project</xref> requires a full Maven
        build, the whole process might prove to be time consuming. The following procedure provide a
        faster alternate way of testing the plugin:</p>
    </context>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Setup an SDK sample project as described in the <xref
            href="http://oxygenxml.com/oxygen_sdk_maven.html" format="html" scope="external">oXygen
            XML SDK tutorial</xref>.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd id="create_plugin_project">Create a new plugin project as a sub-module of the
            <filepath>oxygen-sample-plugins</filepath> module (from the SDK) or start from one of
          the existing sample plugins.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Follow <xref href="http://oxygenxml.com/oxygen_webapp_running_and_testing.html"
            format="html" scope="external">these instructions</xref> to run the <ph
            keyref="webappProduct"/> in a Tomcat server.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Look in the Tomcat logs (or in the console) for a line like "<codeph>Loading plugins
            from: ${path}</codeph>" and note the path of the plugins folder.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the plugins folder, create a sub-folder with a name of your choice (for example,
            <filepath>myplugin</filepath>).</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In that folder (<filepath>myplugin</filepath>), create a
            <filepath>plugin.redirect</filepath> file that contains the path to your plugin project
          (created in step 2) on a single line.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Import your plugin project in Eclipse.</cmd>
        <substeps id="substeps_vy1_gpb_2s">
          <substep>
            <cmd>Click <menucascade>
                <uicontrol>File</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>Import</uicontrol>
              </menucascade>.</cmd>
          </substep>
          <substep>
            <cmd>Choose <uicontrol>Existing Maven Project</uicontrol>.</cmd>
          </substep>
          <substep>
            <cmd>Browse for the location of your plugin.</cmd>
          </substep>
        </substeps>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Modify the <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath> file to add a library reference to the
          directory where Eclipse places the compiled output.</cmd>
        <info>With the default setup of a Maven project, this step requires that you add the
          following element:<pre>&lt;library name="target/classes/"/></pre></info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>You can now open a document in the <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> and it will
          automatically load your plugin.</cmd>
        <info>Every time you make changes to the plugin sources, you will need to restart the <ph
            keyref="webappProduct"/>.</info>
      </step>
    </steps>
    <postreq>
      <p>Once you are happy with the result, you need to add the plugin back in your SDK project and
        follow <xref href="http://oxygenxml.com/oxygen_webapp_running_and_testing.html"
          format="html" scope="external">these instructions</xref> to perform a final testing of the
        project.</p>
    </postreq>
  </taskbody>
  <related-links>
    <link href="../topics/webapp-configure-plugins.dita#webapp-configure-plugins"/>
  </related-links>
</task>
