<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="webhelp-change-toc-icons">
  <title>Changing the Icons in a WebHelp Table of Contents</title>
  <taskbody>
    <context>
      <p>You can change the icons that appear in a WebHelp table of contents by assigning new image
        files in a custom CSS file. By default, the icons for the WebHelp table of contents are
        defined with the following CSS codes (the first example is the icon that appears for a
        collapsed menu and the second for an expanded menu):
        <codeblock outputclass="language-css">.hasSubMenuClosed{
    background: url('../img/book_closed16.png') no-repeat;
    padding-left: 16px;
    cursor: pointer;
}</codeblock></p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css">.hasSubMenuOpened{
    background: url('../img/book_opened16.png') no-repeat;
    padding-left: 16px;
    cursor: pointer;
}</codeblock>
      <p>To assign different icons use the following procedure:</p>
    </context>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Create a custom CSS file that assigns your desired icons to the
            <codeph>.hasSubMenuClosed</codeph> and <codeph>.hasSubMenuOpened</codeph> properties. </cmd>
        <stepxmp>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-css">.hasSubMenuClosed{
    background: url('TOC-my-closed-button.png') no-repeat;
}</codeblock>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-css">.hasSubMenuOpened{
    background: url('TOC-my-opened-button.png') no-repeat;
}</codeblock>
        </stepxmp>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>It is recommended that you store the image files in the same directory as the default
          icons. For example,
            <filepath>[OXYGEN_INSTALL_DIR]\frameworks\dita\DITA-OT\plugins\com.oxygenxml.webhelp\oxygen-webhelp\resources\img\</filepath>.</cmd>
        <substeps id="substeps_hc5_rjy_ls">
          <substep>
            <cmd>For DITA transformations:
                <filepath>[OXYGEN_INSTALL_DIR]\frameworks\dita\DITA-OT\plugins\com.oxygenxml.webhelp\oxygen-webhelp\resources\img\</filepath></cmd>
          </substep>
          <substep>
            <cmd>For DocBook transformations:
                <filepath>[OXYGEN_INSTALL_DIR]\frameworks\docbook\xsl\com.oxygenxml.webhelp\oxygen-webhelp\resources\img\</filepath></cmd>
          </substep>
        </substeps>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd><xref href="../topics/edit-scenario-dialog.dita">Edit the WebHelp transformation
            scenario</xref> and open the <uicontrol>Parameters</uicontrol> tab.</cmd>
        <substeps id="substeps_cjs_fj4_3r">
          <substep>
            <cmd>For a DITA transformation, set the <codeph>args.css</codeph> parameter to the path
              of your custom CSS file. Also, set the <codeph>args.copycss</codeph> parameter to
                <codeph>yes</codeph> to automatically copy your custom CSS in the output folder when
              the transformation scenario is processed.</cmd>
          </substep>
          <substep>
            <cmd>For a DocBook transformation, set the <codeph>html.stylesheet</codeph> parameter to
              the path of your custom CSS file.</cmd>
          </substep>
        </substeps>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Run the transformation scenario.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>
  </taskbody>
</task>
