<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/task.dtd">
<task id="xproc-API-external-engine">
  <title>Integration of an External XProc Engine</title>
  <taskbody>
    <context>The Javadoc documentation of the XProc API is available for download from the
      application website as a zip file: <xref
        href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/xprocAPI.zip" scope="external"
        format="zip"><filepath>xprocAPI.zip</filepath></xref>. In order to create an XProc
      integration project follow the next steps:</context>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Take the <filepath>oxygen.jar</filepath> from
            <filepath>[Oxygen-install-folder]/lib</filepath> and put it in the
            <filepath>lib</filepath> folder of your project.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Implement the
            <apiname>ro.sync.xml.transformer.xproc.api.XProcTransformerInterface</apiname>
          interface.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Create a Java archive (jar) from the classes you created.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Create a <filepath>engine.xml</filepath> file according with the
            <filepath>engine.dtd</filepath> file. The attributes of the <codeph>engine</codeph>
          element have the following meanings: </cmd>
        <info>
          <ol>
            <li><apiname>name</apiname> - The name of the XProc engine.</li>
            <li><apiname>description</apiname> - A short description of the XProc engine.</li>
            <li><apiname>class</apiname> - The complete name of the class that implements
                <apiname>ro.sync.xml.transformer.xproc.api.XProcTransformerInterface</apiname>.</li>
            <li><apiname>version</apiname> - The version of this integration.</li>
            <li><apiname>engineVersion</apiname> - The version of the integrated engine.</li>
            <li><apiname>vendor</apiname> - The name of the vendor / implementor.</li>
            <li><apiname>supportsValidation</apiname> - <apiname>true</apiname> if the engine
              supports validation, <apiname>false</apiname> otherwise.</li>
          </ol>
          <p>The <codeph>engine</codeph> element has only one child, <codeph>runtime</codeph>. The
              <codeph>runtime</codeph> element contains several <codeph>library</codeph> elements
            with the <codeph>name</codeph> attribute containing the relative or absolute location of
            the libraries necessary to run this integration.</p>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Create a folder with the name of the integration in the
            <filepath>[Oxygen-install-folder]/lib/xproc</filepath>.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Put there the <filepath>engine.xml</filepath>, and all the libraries necessary to run
          the new integration.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>
  </taskbody>
</task>