<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_nsh_s2g_nm">
  <title>Accessing Documents</title>
  <body>
    <p>One of the main challenges when integrating the Author Component applet in your SharePoint
      site is to avoid authenticating twice when opening a document resource stored in your
      SharePoint repository.</p>
    <p>You have already signed in when you started the SharePoint session, but the applet is not
      aware of your current session. In this case every time the applet is accessing a document it
      will ask you to input your credentials again.</p>
    <p>As a possible solution, do not execute HTTP requests directly from the Java code, but forward
      them to the web browser that hosts the applet, because it is aware of the current user session
      (authentication cookies).</p>
    <p>To open documents stored on your SharePoint repository, register your own protocol handler to
      the JVM. We implemented a handler for both <term>http</term> and <term>https</term> protocols
      that forwards the HTTP requests to a JavaScript <codeph>XMLHttpRequest</codeph> object. This
      way, the browser that executes the JavaScript code is responsible for handling the
      authentication to the SharePoint site.</p>
    <p>To install this handler, add the following line to your Java Applet code (in our case, in the
        <codeph>ro.sync.ecss.samples.AuthorComponentSampleApplet</codeph>
      class):<codeblock outputclass="language-java">URL.setURLStreamHandlerFactory(new ro.sync.net.protocol.http.handlers.CustomURLStreamHandlerFactory(this));</codeblock></p>
    <p> To enable JavaScript calls from your Java applet code, set the MAYSCRIPT attribute to
        <codeph>true</codeph> in the <codeph>&lt;applet></codeph> element embedded in you HTML
      page:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;applet width="100%" height="600"
  code="ro.sync.ecss.samples.AuthorComponentSampleApplet"
  name="authorComponentAppletName" id="authorComponentApplet" 
  <b>MAYSCRIPT="true"</b>>
    .....
&lt;/applet></codeblock></p>
    <note type="tip">In case the applet is not working, or you cannot open documents from your
      SharePoint repository, enable the debugging tools that come bundled with your Web Browser or
      the Java Console from your operating system to try to identify the cause of the
      problem.</note>
  </body>
</topic>
