<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="accessibility">
  <title>Accessibility Support in Oxygen</title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_rxl_bgk_54b">The <b>Oxygen</b> team is dedicated to developing software products that are usable for
      everyone, including those with physical challenges and disabilities. <ph keyref="product"/> is
      designed to adhere to the U.S. Government Section 508 accessibility standards: <xref
        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/xml_editor/section508.html" format="html" scope="external"
      />.</p>
    <section id="adjusting_fonts_and_colors">
      <title>Adjusting Fonts and Colors</title>
      <p id="p_sxl_bgk_54b">If you have low vision, go to <menucascade>
          <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Appearance</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Fonts</uicontrol>
        </menucascade> where you can adjust the font styles and sizes used in the entire
        application, both for the editing areas and UI labels. If you have color blindness, you can
        also adjust most of the colors used in <ph keyref="product"/> by going to <menucascade>
          <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Appearance</uicontrol>
        </menucascade> and changing the current color theme. You can also search for other
        color-related settings in the <b>Preferences</b> dialog box.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_rfj_4pf_l3b">
      <title>Installing <ph keyref="product"/></title>
      <p id="p_txl_bgk_54b">Installation kits for Windows and Linux are made using the Install4j product. If you have
        problems navigating the Install4j installation wizard, you can run the installation from a
          <xref href="eppo-installation-windows.dita#eppo-installation-windows/c-parameter"
          >command-prompt application using the <b>-c</b> flag</xref> like
        this:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini" id="codeblock_uxl_bgk_54b">C:\Users\your_user_name\Downloads\oxygenAuthor-64bit.exe -c</codeblock></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_ntq_yxn_j3b">
      <title>Screen Reader Software (Windows OS)</title>
      <p id="p_vxl_bgk_54b">If you are using a text-to-speech narrator, <ph keyref="product"/>
        supports this since it is a Java application and it is periodically tested on Windows using
        both the NVDA and JAWS screen readers on the Windows operating system. </p>
    </section>
    <section id="text_to_speech_narrators_jaws">
      <title>Using the JAWS Screen Reader (Windows)</title>
      <p id="p_wxl_bgk_54b">The JAWS (Job Access With Speech) screen reader can be downloaded from:
          <xref href="http://www.freedomscientific.com/Products/Blindness/JAWS" format="html"
          scope="external"/>.</p>
      <p id="p_xxl_bgk_54b">For JAWS to work, you need to enable the Java access bridge in <ph keyref="product"/>:
          <xref
          href="http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/access/enable_and_test.html"
          format="html" scope="external"/>.</p>
      <p id="p_yxl_bgk_54b">To enable the Java access bridge:<ol id="ol_s4m_xh5_g3b">
          <li id="li_zxl_bgk_54b">Since <ph keyref="product"/> comes bundled with its own Java VM, you need to open a
            command-prompt application and use the <uicontrol>cd</uicontrol> command to go to the
              <ph keyref="product"/> installation directory (for example, in Windows, it would be
            something like
            this:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini" id="codeblock_ayl_bgk_54b">cd C:\Program Files\Oxygen XML Editor 21.1</codeblock></li>
          <li id="li_byl_bgk_54b">Then run the following
            command:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini" id="codeblock_cyl_bgk_54b">jre\bin\jabswitch -enable</codeblock></li>
          <li id="li_dyl_bgk_54b">Press <uicontrol><shortcut>Enter</shortcut></uicontrol> and you should receive a
            notification that the access bridge has been enabled.</li>
        </ol></p>
      <p id="p_eyl_bgk_54b">Once the Java access bridge is enabled and as long as the JAWS narrator is active, when <ph
          keyref="product"/> starts, the narrator will start reading content from <ph
          keyref="product"/> and you can interact with the application and read menus, content from
        open XML documents, and UI components from dialog boxes and side views.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_r3c_fzn_j3b">
      <title>Using the NVDA Screen Reader (Windows)</title>
      <p id="p_fyl_bgk_54b">The NVDA screen reader can be downloaded for free from: <xref
          href="https://www.nvaccess.org/" format="html" scope="external"/>.</p>
      <p id="p_gyl_bgk_54b">For NVDA to work, you need to enable the Java access bridge in <ph keyref="product"/>:
          <xref
          href="http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/access/enable_and_test.html"
          format="html" scope="external"/>.</p>
      <p id="p_hyl_bgk_54b">To enable the Java access bridge:<ol id="ol_s3c_fzn_j3b">
          <li id="li_iyl_bgk_54b">Since <ph keyref="product"/> comes bundled with its own Java VM, you need to open a
            command-prompt application and use the <uicontrol>cd</uicontrol> command to go to the
              <ph keyref="product"/> installation directory (for example, in Windows, it would be
            something like
            this:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini" id="codeblock_jyl_bgk_54b">cd C:\Program Files\Oxygen XML Editor 21.1</codeblock></li>
          <li id="li_kyl_bgk_54b">Then run the following
            command:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini" id="codeblock_lyl_bgk_54b">jre\bin\jabswitch -enable</codeblock></li>
          <li id="li_myl_bgk_54b">Press <uicontrol><shortcut>Enter</shortcut></uicontrol> and you should receive a
            notification that the access bridge has been enabled.</li>
        </ol></p>
      <p id="p_nyl_bgk_54b">Once the Java access bridge is enabled and as long as the NVDA narrator is started, when
          <ph keyref="product"/> starts, the narrator will start reading content from <ph
          keyref="product"/> and you can interact with the application and read menus, content from
        open XML documents, and UI components from dialog boxes and side views.<note
          type="important" id="note_oyl_bgk_54b">If after these steps the narrator still does not read anything from a
          started <ph keyref="product"/> application, please go to the folder
            <codeph>C:\Windows\SysWOW64\</codeph> and make sure the library
            <codeph>WindowsAccessBridge-32.dll</codeph> is present there. If it is not present, try
          to search online, download the library file and copy it to the folder. Then restart <ph
            keyref="product"/>.</note></p>
      <p id="p_pyl_bgk_54b">Besides the main editing area, <ph keyref="product"/> also has side views (for example, the
          <uicontrol>Attributes</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol>,
          <uicontrol>Elements</uicontrol> views) that help with editing the XML content. NVDA
        versions <b>2020.1</b> and older have a <xref
          href="https://github.com/nvaccess/nvda/issues/5989" format="html" scope="external"
          >registered bug</xref> that makes the narrator read content from the side views when
        editing in the main editing area. Because of this problem, when using NVDA versions
          <b>2020.1</b> or older, the following workflow is suggested:<ol id="ul_qd1_r14_j3b">
          <li id="li_qyl_bgk_54b">Start <ph keyref="product"/>.</li>
          <li id="li_ryl_bgk_54b">Go to the <uicontrol>Window</uicontrol> menu and select <uicontrol>Maximize Editing
              Area</uicontrol> (or <uicontrol><shortcut>hold Alt, then W, then
              M</shortcut></uicontrol>). This action will hide all side views and allow you to
            properly edit in the main editing area.</li>
          <li id="li_syl_bgk_54b">Whenever you want to open a side view, go to <menucascade>
              <uicontrol>Window</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Show View</uicontrol>
            </menucascade> (or <uicontrol><shortcut>hold Alt, then W, then S</shortcut></uicontrol>)
            and choose the view you want to open. For example, to show the
              <uicontrol>Elements</uicontrol> view, you can <uicontrol><shortcut>hold Alt, then W,
                then S, then E</shortcut></uicontrol>.</li>
          <li id="li_tyl_bgk_54b">When you are done using the side view, go to the <uicontrol>Window</uicontrol> menu
            and select <uicontrol>Hide current view</uicontrol> (or <uicontrol><shortcut>hold Alt,
                then W, then H</shortcut></uicontrol>) to hide the side view and return the focus to
            the main editing area.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="hints_for_the_visually_impaired">
      <title>Hints for the Visually Impaired</title>
      <p id="p_uyl_bgk_54b">Here are a few hints for using <ph keyref="product"/> if you are visually impaired:<ul
          id="ul_owd_cv5_xcb">
          <li id="li_vyl_bgk_54b">The top main menu contains actions to open, save, and close documents, switch between
            open documents, or switch between the various editing modes for XML documents that are
            already open. All actions in the main menu bar should have mnemonics making it possible
            to memorize various shortcuts. For example, using the <uicontrol>alt-w-s-e</uicontrol>
            shortcut should open the <uicontrol>Window</uicontrol> menu, open the <uicontrol>Show
              view</uicontrol> submenu from it and show the <uicontrol>Elements</uicontrol> view,<ul
              id="ul_hyq_hv5_xcb">
              <li id="li_wyl_bgk_54b">The <uicontrol>File</uicontrol> menu contains actions to open, save, or close the
                currently edited XML document.</li>
              <li id="li_xyl_bgk_54b">The <uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol> menu contains actions to undo/redo or
                cut/copy/paste content. They also have the usual shortcuts that can be used instead
                of directly invoking the actions from the menu.</li>
              <li id="li_yyl_bgk_54b">The <uicontrol>Find</uicontrol> menu contains an action to show the
                  <uicontrol>Find/Replace</uicontrol> dialog box. Sometimes the <b>JAWS</b> narrator
                overloads the <uicontrol><shortcut>CTRL+F</shortcut></uicontrol> shortcut and
                presents its own find/replace window but the <ph keyref="product"/>
                <uicontrol>Find/Replace</uicontrol> dialog box provides the ability to perform
                complex find/replace operations in the open file.</li>
              <li id="li_zyl_bgk_54b">In the <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol> menu, you have access to the
                  <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol> dialog box that contains global application
                settings and access to the <b>Menu Shortcut Keys</b> table where you can configure
                shortcuts for the most commonly used actions.</li>
              <li id="li_azl_bgk_54b">The <uicontrol>Window</uicontrol> menu includes actions to switch between open XML
                documents. Also, you can use the <uicontrol>Show view</uicontrol> submenu to open a
                particular side view and move the focus to that view.</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li id="li_bzl_bgk_54b">An open XML document can be edited with accessibility support either in the
              <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> editing mode (where the XML tags are accessible in the
            edited content) or in the visual <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> editing mode (where the
            XML tags are hidden and only the text content is shown). You can switch between these
            editing modes by using the <menucascade>
              <uicontrol>Document</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Edit Mode</uicontrol>
            </menucascade> menu.<ul id="ul_jgk_nk1_ycb">
              <li id="li_czl_bgk_54b">
                <p id="p_dzl_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode provides access to the entire source document
                  with all of its <b>XML</b> content, just like you have in any text editing
                  application. </p>
                <p id="p_ezl_bgk_54b">Pressing the <uicontrol><shortcut>&lt;</shortcut></uicontrol> key will present a
                  list of <xref keyref="glossentry_content-completion-assistant">available XML
                    elements</xref>. If you do not want to choose from the list whenever you want to
                  insert an XML element, you have two choices:<ul id="ul_bdq_sj4_llb">
                    <li id="li_fzl_bgk_54b">After the list of available XML elements is shown, you can press the
                          <uicontrol><shortcut>ESC</shortcut></uicontrol> key to close it and
                      continue to manually insert the XML tag.</li>
                    <li id="li_gzl_bgk_54b">You can disable the content completion list from the <menucascade>
                        <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>
                        <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
                        <uicontrol>Editor / Content Completion</uicontrol>
                      </menucascade> page by deselecting <uicontrol>Enable Content
                        Completion</uicontrol>. After the content completion is disabled, you can
                      force it to be displayed by using the
                          <uicontrol><shortcut>Ctrl+Space</shortcut></uicontrol> keyboard
                      shortcut.</li>
                  </ul></p>
                <p id="p_hzl_bgk_54b">In addition, using the <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol>Window</uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol>Show view</uicontrol>
                  </menucascade> submenu, you can change focus to the
                    <uicontrol>Attributes</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Elements</uicontrol>, or
                    <uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol> view. The <uicontrol>Attributes</uicontrol> view
                  presents the existing and possible attributes that can be inserted in an XML tag.
                  The <uicontrol>Elements</uicontrol> view shows you the list of XML elements that
                  can be inserted at the cursor position (also, pressing
                      <uicontrol><shortcut>F2</shortcut></uicontrol> on a selected element presents
                  its annotation). The <uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol> view shows the current path in
                  the XML structure.</p>
              </li>
              <li id="li_izl_bgk_54b">
                <p id="p_jzl_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode is useful for reviewing written XML content
                  because it has support for change tracking and for adding comments. Editing in the
                    <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> visual editing mode, you have access to only the
                  text content in the XML document.</p>
                <p id="p_kzl_bgk_54b">Pressing <uicontrol><shortcut>Shift+F2</shortcut></uicontrol> will read the
                  current element context where the cursor is located. Pressing
                      <uicontrol><shortcut>Ctrl+Shift+F3</shortcut></uicontrol> will read the
                  current element context and the entire path in the XML structure where the cursor
                  is located. You can also use the <uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol> view to better
                  understand the XML structure. </p>
                <p id="p_lzl_bgk_54b">In the <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> editing mode, you can also use the
                    <uicontrol>Attributes</uicontrol> and <uicontrol>Elements</uicontrol> views
                  similar to using them in the <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> editing mode. Pressing
                      <uicontrol><shortcut>Enter</shortcut></uicontrol> in the
                    <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> visual editing mode can also be used to present a
                  list of allowed elements at the current position.</p>
              </li>
            </ul></li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_fjk_sjm_hwb">
      <title>Screen Reader Software (macOS)</title>
      <p>On <uicontrol>macOS</uicontrol>, the application can be used with
          <uicontrol>VoiceOver</uicontrol> but is not rigorously tested with it. Because of
        processing limitations of the <uicontrol>VoiceOver</uicontrol> application, various
        limitations may be encountered. To avoid blocking the application, when tree-structure user
        interface controls are used (like the <uicontrol>Project</uicontrol> view or
          <uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol>), if a node in the tree contains more than 500 child nodes,
        only the first 500 child nodes are accessible to the screen reader.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
