<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="add-favicon-webhelp">
  <title>How to Add a Favicon in WebHelp Systems</title>
  <titlealts product="webhelp-responsive">
    <navtitle>How to Add a Favicon</navtitle>
  </titlealts>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
          >WebHelp Responsive <indexterm>Adding favicon</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm product="webhelp-responsive ope">Adding favicon</indexterm>
      </keywords>
      <keywords>
        <keyword outputclass="label" product="webhelp-responsive">Publishing Template</keyword>
        <keyword outputclass="label" product="webhelp-responsive">Transformation
          Parameters</keyword>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_qb4_cgk_54b">You can add a custom <i>favicon</i> to your WebHelp output by simply using a parameter in the
      transformation scenario to point to your <i>favicon</i> image.</p>
    <p id="p_rb4_cgk_54b">This customization can be done using an <term>Oxygen Publishing Template</term> or using a
      transformation scenario from within <b>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</b>.</p>
    <section id="using_oxygen_xml_editorauthor">
      <title>Using a Publishing Template</title>
      <p id="p_sb4_cgk_54b">To add a <i>favicon</i> to your WebHelp output using an <xref
          keyref="wh-publishing-template"><term>Oxygen Publishing Template</term></xref>, follow
        this procedure:<ol id="ol_tb4_cgk_54b">
          <li id="li_ub4_cgk_54b">If you have not already created a Publishing Template, see <xref
              href="whr_publishing_templates.dita"/>.</li>
          <li id="li_vb4_cgk_54b">Open the <xref href="whr_publishing_template_contents.dita#template_descritpor_file"
              >template descriptor file</xref> associated with your publishing template and add the
              <xmlelement>favicon</xmlelement> element in the <term>resources</term> section. The
            path to the image is relative to the template root
            folder.<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_wb4_cgk_54b">&lt;publishing-template>
    ...
    &lt;webhelp>
      ...                
      &lt;resources>            
          ...
          &lt;favicon file="images/favicon.png"/></codeblock></li>
          <li id="li_xb4_cgk_54b">Open the <term>DITA Map WebHelp Responsive</term> transformation scenario.</li>
          <li id="li_yb4_cgk_54b">Click the <uicontrol>Choose Custom Publishing Template</uicontrol> link and select
            your template.</li>
          <li id="li_zb4_cgk_54b">Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> to save the changes to the transformation
            scenario.</li>
          <li id="li_ac4_cgk_54b">Run the transformation scenario.</li>
        </ol></p>
      <p id="p_bc4_cgk_54b"><b>Result:</b> Browsers that provide <i>favicon</i> support display the <i>favicon</i>
        (typically in the browser's address bar, in the list of bookmarks, and in the history).</p>
    </section>
    <section id="from_a_command_line">
      <title>Using a Transformation Scenario in Oxygen XML Editor/Author</title>
      <p id="p_cc4_cgk_54b">To add a <i>favicon</i> to your WebHelp output using a transformation scenario from within
          <b>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</b>, follow this procedure:<ol id="ol_dc4_cgk_54b">
          <li id="li_ec4_cgk_54b">Edit the <term>DITA Map WebHelp Responsive</term> transformation scenario and choose a
              <i>template</i>.</li>
          <li id="li_fc4_cgk_54b">Open the <uicontrol>Parameters</uicontrol> tab and set the
              <codeph>webhelp.favicon</codeph> parameter to the path of your image.</li>
          <li id="li_gc4_cgk_54b">Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> to save the changes to the transformation
            scenario.</li>
          <li id="li_hc4_cgk_54b">Run the transformation scenario.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
