<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/task.dtd">
<task id="add-font-to-builtin-FOP">
  <title>Add a Font to the Built-in FO Processor</title>
  <taskbody>
    <context>
      <p>If an XML document is transformed to PDF using the built-in Apache FOP processor but it
        contains some Unicode characters that cannot be rendered by the default PDF fonts, then a
        special font that is capable to render these characters must be configured and embedded in
        the PDF result.</p>
      <note type="important">If this special font is installed in the operating system, there is a
        simple way of telling FOP to look for it. See <xref
          href="add-font-to-builtin-FOP-simplified.dita" format="dita">the
          simplified procedure for adding a font to FOP</xref>.</note>
    </context>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Locate the font.</cmd>
        <info>
          <p>First, find out the name of a font that has the glyphs for the special characters you
            used. One font that covers most characters, including Japanese, Cyrillic, and Greek, is
            Arial Unicode MS.</p>
          <p>On Windows the fonts are located into the <filepath>C:\Windows\Fonts</filepath>
            directory. On Mac, they are placed in <filepath>/Library/Fonts</filepath>. To install a
            new font on your system, is enough to copy it in the <filepath>Fonts</filepath>
            directory.</p>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Generate a font metrics file from the font file.</cmd>
        <substeps>
          <substep>
            <cmd>Open a terminal.</cmd>
          </substep>
          <substep>
            <cmd>Change the working directory to the <ph
                keyref="product"/> install
              directory.</cmd>
          </substep>
          <substep>
            <cmd>Create the following script file in the <ph
                keyref="product"/>
              installation directory.</cmd>
            <info>
              <p>For OS X and Linux create a file <filepath>ttfConvert.sh</filepath>:</p>
              <codeblock outputclass="language-bourne">#!/bin/sh 

export LIB=lib
export CP=$LIB/fop.jar
export CP=$CP:$LIB/avalon-framework-4.2.0.jar
export CP=$CP:$LIB/xercesImpl.jar
export CP=$CP:$LIB/commons-logging-1.1.3.jar
export CP=$CP:$LIB/commons-io-1.3.1.jar
export CP=$CP:$LIB/xmlgraphics-commons-1.5.jar
export CP=$CP:$LIB/xml-apis.jar
export CMD="java -cp $CP org.apache.fop.fonts.apps.TTFReader"
export FONT_DIR='.'

$CMD $FONT_DIR/Arialuni.ttf Arialuni.xml</codeblock>
              <p>For Windows create a file <filepath>ttfConvert.bat</filepath>:</p>
              <codeblock>@echo off
set LIB=lib
set CP=%LIB%\fop.jar
set CP=%CP%;%LIB%\avalon-framework-4.2.0.jar
set CP=%CP%;%LIB%\xercesImpl.jar
set CP=%CP%;%LIB%\commons-logging-1.1.3.jar
set CP=%CP%;%LIB%\commons-io-1.3.1.jar
set CP=%CP%;%LIB%\xmlgraphics-commons-1.5.jar
set CP=%CP%;%LIB%\xml-apis.jar
set CMD=java -cp "%CP%" org.apache.fop.fonts.apps.TTFReader
set FONT_DIR=C:\Windows\Fonts
%CMD% %FONT_DIR%\Arialuni.ttf Arialuni.xml</codeblock>
              <p>The paths specified in the file are relative to the <ph
                  keyref="product"/>
                installation directory. If you decide to create it in other directory, change the
                file paths accordingly.</p>
              <p>The <codeph>FONT_DIR</codeph> can be something different on your system. Check that
                it points to the correct font directory. If the Java executable is not in the
                  <codeph>PATH</codeph>, specify the full path of the executable.</p>
              <p>If the font has bold and italic variants, convert them too by adding two more lines
                to the script file:</p>
              <ul>
                <li>for OS X and
                  Linux:<codeblock>$CMD $FONT_DIR/Arialuni-Bold.ttf Arialuni-Bold.xml
$CMD $FONT_DIR/Arialuni-Italic.ttf Arialuni-Italic.xml</codeblock></li>
                <li>for
                  Windows:<codeblock>%CMD% %FONT_DIR%\Arialuni-Bold.ttf Arialuni-Bold.xml
%CMD% %FONT_DIR%\Arialuni-Italic.ttf Arialuni-Italic.xml</codeblock></li>
              </ul>
            </info>
          </substep>
          <substep>
            <cmd>Run the script.</cmd>
            <info>On Linux and OS X, run the command <userinput>sh ttfConvert.sh</userinput> from
              the command line. On Windows, run the command <userinput>ttfConvert.bat</userinput>
              from the command line or double-click the file
              <userinput>ttfConvert.bat</userinput>.</info>
          </substep>
        </substeps>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Register the font in FOP configuration. (This is not necessary for DITA PDF
          transformations, skip to the next step)</cmd>
        <substeps>
          <substep>
            <cmd>Create a FOP configuration file that specifies the font metrics file for your
              font.</cmd>
            <info>
              <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;fop version="1.0"&gt;
  &lt;base&gt;./&lt;/base&gt;
  &lt;font-base&gt;file:/C:/path/to/FOP/font/metrics/files/&lt;/font-base&gt;
  &lt;source-resolution&gt;72&lt;/source-resolution&gt;
  &lt;target-resolution&gt;72&lt;/target-resolution&gt;
  &lt;default-page-settings height="11in" width="8.26in"/&gt;
  &lt;renderers&gt;
    &lt;renderer mime="application/pdf"&gt;
      &lt;filterList&gt;
        &lt;value&gt;flate&lt;/value&gt;
      &lt;/filterList&gt;
      &lt;fonts&gt;
          &lt;font metrics-url="Arialuni.xml" kerning="yes" 
                embed-url="file:/Library/Fonts/Arialuni.ttf"&gt;
              &lt;font-triplet name="Arialuni" style="normal" 
                    weight="normal"/&gt;
          &lt;/font&gt;
      &lt;/fonts&gt;
    &lt;/renderer&gt;
  &lt;/renderers&gt;
&lt;/fop&gt;
                       </codeblock>
              <p>The <userinput>embed-url</userinput> attribute points to the font file to be
                embedded. Specify it using the URL convention. The
                  <userinput>metrics-url</userinput> attribute points to the font metrics file with
                a path relative to the <userinput>base</userinput> element. The triplet refers to
                the unique combination of name, weight, and style (italic) for each variation of the
                font. In our case is just one triplet, but if the font had variants, you would have
                to specify one for each variant. Here is an example for Arial Unicode if it had
                italic and bold variants:</p>
              <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;fop version="1.0"&gt;
  ...
    &lt;fonts&gt;
        &lt;font metrics-url="Arialuni.xml" kerning="yes" 
              embed-url="file:/Library/Fonts/Arialuni.ttf"&gt;
            &lt;font-triplet name="Arialuni" style="normal" 
                  weight="normal"/&gt;
        &lt;/font&gt;
        &lt;font metrics-url="Arialuni-Bold.xml" kerning="yes" 
              embed-url="file:/Library/Fonts/Arialuni-Bold.ttf"&gt;
            &lt;font-triplet name="Arialuni" style="normal" 
                  weight="bold"/&gt;
        &lt;/font&gt;
        &lt;font metrics-url="Arialuni-Italic.xml" kerning="yes" 
              embed-url="file:/Library/Fonts/Arialuni-Italic.ttf"&gt;
            &lt;font-triplet name="Arialuni" style="italic" 
                  weight="normal"/&gt;
        &lt;/font&gt;
    &lt;/fonts&gt;
  ...
&lt;/fop&gt;</codeblock>
              <p>More details about the FOP configuration file are available on the FOP website.</p>
            </info>
          </substep>
          <substep>
            <cmd><ph conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/Open-the-preferences-page"/>, go to <menucascade>
                <uicontrol>XML</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>XSLT/FO/XQuery</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>FO Processors</uicontrol>
              </menucascade>, and enter the path of the FOP configuration file in the
                <uicontrol>Configuration file</uicontrol> text field.</cmd>
          </substep>
        </substeps>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Set the font on the document content.</cmd>
        <info>This is usually done with XSLT stylesheet parameters and depends on the document type
          processed by the stylesheet.<p><b><u>DocBook Example:</u></b> For DocBook documents, you
            can start with the predefined scenario called <b>DocBook PDF</b>, <xref
              href="xml-transformation-with-xslt.dita#xml-transformation-with-xslt"
              format="dita">edit the XSLT parameters</xref>, and set the font name (in our example
              <b>Arialuni</b>) to the parameters <parmname>body.font.family</parmname> and
              <parmname>title.font.family</parmname>.</p><p><b><u>TEI Example:</u></b> For TEI
            documents, you can start with the predefined scenario called <b>TEI PDF</b>, <xref
              href="xml-transformation-with-xslt.dita#xml-transformation-with-xslt"
              format="dita">edit the XSLT parameters</xref>, and set the font name (in our example
              <b>Arialuni</b>) to the parameters <parmname>bodyFont</parmname> and
              <parmname>sansFont</parmname>.</p><p><b><u>DITA Example:</u></b> For DITA to PDF
            transformations using DITA-OT modify the following two files:<ul>
              <li><filepath><term keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"
                  />/plugins/org.dita.pdf2/cfg/fo/font-mappings.xml</filepath> - The
                  <userinput>font-face</userinput> element included in each element
                  <userinput>physical-font</userinput> having the <userinput>attribute
                  char-set="default"</userinput> must contain the name of the font (<i>Arialuni</i>
                in our example)</li>
              <li><filepath><term keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"
                  />/plugins/org.dita.pdf2/fop/conf/fop.xconf</filepath> - An element
                  <userinput>font</userinput> must be inserted in the element
                  <userinput>fonts</userinput>, which is inside the element
                  <userinput>renderer</userinput> that has the attribute
                  <userinput>mime="application/pdf"</userinput>:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;renderer mime="application/pdf"&gt;
  . . .
   &lt;fonts&gt;
       &lt;font metrics-url="Arialuni.xml" kerning="yes" 
           embed-url="file:/Library/Fonts/Arialuni.ttf"&gt;
           &lt;font-triplet name="Arialuni" style="normal" 
               weight="normal"/&gt;
       &lt;/font&gt;
   &lt;/fonts&gt;
  . . .
&lt;/renderer&gt;</codeblock></li>
            </ul></p></info>
      </step>
    </steps>
  </taskbody>
</task>
