<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="adding-select-all-button">
  <title>Example:
    Ad<?oxy_comment_start author="Steven" timestamp="20171220T093557+0200" comment="I will edit this as an Example to include in the &quot;Overiding XSLT Processing Step&quot; and it should use a method that is described in this section (using the &quot;com.oxygenxml.webhelp.xsl.dita2webhelp&quot; extension point). This current procedure is not recommended (as per Alin). When I create the topic, I can send it to Alin to review.

Also, we could have a similar example topic in the Classic section."?>ding
    a Button in Codeblock Areas in DITA WebHelp Out<?oxy_comment_end?>put</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>WebHelp Responsive system<indexterm>Add button in code
          snippets</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <taskbody>
    <context>
      <p><?oxy_comment_start author="Steven" timestamp="20171220T162631+0200" comment="Convert to Topic and totally change this procedure."?>This
        task will get you started with how to add an action (such as a button or link) in the code
        snippet areas that are displayed in <b>DITA map to WebHelp Responsive</b> output. You can
        then attach your code that does the actual processing for the action.</p>
      <p>Follow these steps:</p>
    </context>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Open the <filepath><term keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"
            ></term>\plugins\org.dita.xhtml\xsl\xslhtml\dita2htmlImpl.xsl</filepath> file.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Locate this template: <codeph>&lt;xsl:template match="*[contains(@class, ' topic/pre
            ')]" mode="pre-fmt"></codeph>. Examine the default behavior of this template.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Open the <filepath><term keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"
            ></term>\plugins\com.oxygenxml.webhelp.responsive\xsl\dita\desktop\fixup.xsl</filepath>
          file and create a template that is similar to the one you examined in step 2:
            <codeph>&lt;xsl:template match="*[contains(@class, ' topic/pre ')]"
            mode="pre-fmt"></codeph>. It will be used to override the default processing. This new
          template will include your code for creating the button. It will have the action code that
          does the actual processing attached to it (this can be written in JavaScript, for
          example).</cmd>
        <info>Example of a <i>Select all</i>
          button:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;xsl:template match="*[contains(@class, ' topic/pre ')]" mode="pre-fmt">
    &lt;button onclick="SelectText(element)">Select all&lt;/button>
    &lt;script>
      function SelectText(element) {
        var text = document.getElementById(element);
        var range = document.body.createTextRange();
        range.moveToElementText(text);
        range.select();
      }
    &lt;/script>
  &lt;/xsl:template></codeblock></info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Save the file and run the transformation.</cmd><?oxy_comment_end?>
      </step>
    </steps>
  </taskbody>
</task>
