<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ai-jira_automation">
  <title>Using the Jira API and the AI Positron Assistant for Automating Tasks </title>
  <body>
    <section id="section_orm_df5_jcc">
      <title>What is Jira?</title>
      <p><xref href="https://www.atlassian.com/software/jira" format="html" scope="external"
              ><i><b>Jira</b></i></xref>, developed by <i>Atlassian</i>, is a project management
        tool designed to help teams with planning projects, tracking issues, release management, and
        more.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_zwg_zh5_jcc">
      <title>Jira API</title>
      <p><i><b>Jira</b></i> provides <i>API support</i> for custom workflows and other
        customizations for both on-premise and cloud applications. This topic describes the process
        of documenting a given issue using the <b><i>AI Positron Assistant</i></b> add-on. </p>
      <p>
        <note id="note_m3d_wl5_jcc">This document demonstrates using a simple <i>API call</i>,
            <b>without</b> generating an <i>API key</i>, while mainly using the browser to return
          the information about the issue. A <i><b>curl request</b></i> (or even a dedicated
          application like <i><b>Postman</b></i>) can also be used, but authorization might not work
          without generating an <i>API key</i> or setting up a custom authorization method.</note>
      </p>
      <p>The main API call for this example will have this
        structure:<codeblock id="codeblock_i44_fvw_fdc" outputclass="language-bourne">https://&lt;site-url>/rest/api/&lt;version-id>/&lt;resource-name></codeblock></p>
      <p id="p_i4x_yv1_pdc">For the <i>version-id</i>, this example uses the API's second version.
        There is also a third version of the API that currently is in beta, but many on-premise Jira
        solutions might have not yet been configured to use it.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_jmp_yvw_fdc">
      <title>Calling the API</title>
      <p id="p_ktj_gw1_pdc">
        <ol id="ol_yxp_gw1_pdc">
          <li id="li_zxp_gw1_pdc">Access Jira and log in using the browser of your choice.</li>
          <li id="li_vjc_3w1_pdc">Navigate to the Jira issue.</li>
          <li id="li_slq_kw1_pdc">Format the URL to use the API using the structure mentioned
            above:<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne">https://johndoe.atlassian.net/rest/api/2/issue/SCRUM-2401</codeblock></li>
          <li id="li_rxm_yw1_pdc">Access the constructed API URL using your browser.</li>
        </ol>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_ygm_23x_fdc">
      <title>Creating a DITA Topic Based on a Jira Issue</title>
      <p>The <b><i>AI Positron Assistant</i></b> add-on can be used to programmatically create
        documentation drafts. This feature can be used to create a documentation topic about a given
        Jira issue.</p>
      <ol id="ol_i2t_gx1_pdc">
        <li id="li_j2t_gx1_pdc">Make sure the content provided by the API is saved.</li>
        <li id="li_tkb_hz1_pdc">Construct a prompt for the AI to give it instructions about what to
          do with the data. For
          example:<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne">Write a DITA topic that documents the Jira issue and save it in the current project. Use the Jira issue id as the name of the document. The JIRA issue number is: SCRUM-2401</codeblock></li>
        <li id="li_hm4_zz1_pdc">Enter the constructed prompt in the AI Positron Assistant's
            chat.<note id="note_ob5_yjx_fdc">Depending on your desired goal, the AI Positron
            Assistant may require context retrieval. Also, to save the new document, the AI Positron
            Assistant will request permission.</note></li>
      </ol>
      <p id="p_ipk_p1b_pdc"><b>Result:</b> A DITA topic should have been created based on the
        instructions and information retrieved from the Jira issue.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jira_(software)" format="html" scope="external">
      <linktext>Jira (Wikipedia)</linktext>
    </link>
    <link href="https://www.atlassian.com/software/jira" format="html" scope="external">
      <linktext>Jira</linktext>
    </link>
    <link href="https://developer.atlassian.com/cloud/jira/platform/rest/v2/intro/#about"
      format="html" scope="external">
      <linktext>Jira API v2</linktext>
    </link>
  </related-links>
</topic>
