<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ai-positron-eclipse-customization">
  <title>Advanced Customization</title>
  <body>
    <section id="section_lqv_qnt_vbc">
      <title>Function Calls</title>
      <p id="p_bvn_sr4_pcc">Within the definition of custom actions, you can reference existing
        functions that are called by the AI engine to interact with the application. This gives
        actions more context information and generates more accurate responses from the AI.</p>
      <p>Here is an example of a function reference that gets called by the AI engine to obtain the
        entire contents of the
        document:<codeblock id="codeblock_ibw_5nt_vbc" outputclass="language-json">{
    "id": "action.summarize",
    "title": "Summarize",
    "categoryId": "Overview",
    "output-type": "none",
    "description": "Generate a summary of the selected content or the entire document.",
    "prompt": "Your task is to summarize the provided user text.",
    "parameters": {
        "function_refs": [
            {
                "ref": "get_current_document_plain_text_content"
            }
        ]
    }
}</codeblock></p>
      <p>The current available function reference values are:</p>
      <p>
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><codeph>add_to_toc(ditaMapURL, resourceURL, anchorNodeURL,
                positionOfInsertion)</codeph></dt>
            <dd>Modifies the DITA map currently opened in the <uicontrol>DITA Maps
                Manager</uicontrol> view and adds a topic reference to it.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><codeph>get_content_around_caret</codeph></dt>
            <dd>Retrieves size-limited content around the current cursor location within the
              document open in the editor.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_r2p_s3f_y2c12">
            <dt><codeph>get_content_for_document_url</codeph></dt>
            <dd>Retrieves content from the document specified by the provided URL. An optional
                <codeph>lineNumbering</codeph> parameter allows the AI to request the returned
              content to be returned with line numbers included.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><codeph>get_current_document_marked_up_content</codeph></dt>
            <dd>Retrieves all text with markup from the current document open in the editor. An
              optional <codeph>lineNumbering</codeph> parameter allows the AI to request the
              returned content to be returned with line numbers included.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><codeph>get_current_document_plain_text_content</codeph></dt>
            <dd>Retrieves all plain text (e.g. without markup) from the current document open in the
              editor.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><codeph>get_current_editor_file_location</codeph></dt>
            <dd>Retrieves the location (absolute path/URL) of the current file that is open in the
              editor.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><codeph>get_related_content_from_webhelp</codeph></dt>
            <dd>Returns content from the associated <uicontrol>Oxygen Feedback</uicontrol> WebHelp
              system that has <xref
                href="ai-positron-eclipse-preferences.dita#ai-positron-eclipse-preferences/section_vt1_x2n_3fc"
                >external RAG sources enabled and configured</xref>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><codeph>get_related_content_from_specific_feedback_site</codeph></dt>
            <dd>Returns content from the specified <uicontrol>Oxygen Feedback</uicontrol> WebHelp
              token passed as a parameter. The <xref
                href="ai-positron-eclipse-preferences.dita#ai-positron-eclipse-preferences/section_vt1_x2n_3fc"
                  ><uicontrol>Enable External RAG Sources</uicontrol> checkbox must be selected in
                the <uicontrol>Functions and RAG</uicontrol> preferences</xref>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><codeph>get_topic_context_in_toc</codeph></dt>
            <dd>Returns a hierarchical structure of the DITA map that is currently open in the
                <uicontrol>DITA Maps Manager</uicontrol> view. This structure shows the selected
              topic and provides context, including its parent, siblings, descendants, and nearby
              nodes within the DITA map. This feature helps the AI understand where the topic is
              located in relation to other elements in the DITA map. If the selected topic cannot be
              identified, the hierarchy will start from the root of the DITA map.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_svh_mtv_g2c">
            <dt><codeph>invoke_ai_action(actionID, content)</codeph></dt>
            <dd>Invoke an action by passing the action ID and content to process.<note
                id="note_gcg_qhn_d2c" type="tip">To define actions that are hidden in the interface
                and intended only for use by other actions, prefix their IDs with
                  <codeph>agent.hidden.action</codeph>.</note></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_ydt_mtv_g2c">
            <dt><codeph>retrieve_all_ai_actions</codeph></dt>
            <dd>Get IDs and descriptions for each available AI action.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><codeph>save_document(URL,content)</codeph></dt>
            <dd>Saves the document at the specified path and writes content to it. If a resource
              already exists at the specified URL, the content of the document will be overridden
              with the new content. For actions that use this function, the application gathers a
              list of resources to modify and displays them in a <uicontrol>Preview</uicontrol>
              dialog box after the action processes.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><codeph>validate_document_content(URL, content)</codeph></dt>
            <dd>Validates specified content and reports error messages in JSON format.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><codeph>validate_current_document()</codeph></dt>
            <dd>Validates the current document's content and reports error messages in JSON
              format.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
      <p>You can impose a description for the referenced function that is called by the AI engine: </p>
      <codeblock id="pre_uxb_24t_vbc" outputclass="language-json">"function_refs": [
  {
      "ref": "get_current_document_plain_text_content",
      "description": "The function is designed to retrieve the complete document as 
      plain text without markup."
  }
]</codeblock>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
