<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ai_autocompletion">
  <title>AI Autocompletion (Context-Aware Inline Suggestions)</title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_www_tgh_bhc">If the <xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/ai_positron_assistant.html"
        format="html" scope="external"><b>Oxygen AI Positron</b> add-on</xref> (version
      7.0 or later) is installed, an <i>AI Autocompletion</i> feature is integrated into <ph
        keyref="product"/>. The <i>AI Autocompletion</i> feature empowers authors and developers by
      offering real-time, context-aware code and markup suggestions directly in the <ph
        keyref="product"/> editor. As you type, the AI Positron proactively proposes completions,
      structural fragments, or enhancements tailored to your current editing context (e.g. XSLT,
      XSD, JSON Schema, Schematron). The goal is to reduce manual typing, speed up coding, and
      maintain higher consistency.</p>
    <section id="how_ai_autocompletion_works">
      <title>How AI Autocompletion Works</title>
      <p>AI Positron continuously monitors what you type in the <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> editing
        mode. When it detects a suitable opportunity, it proposes inline suggestions directly within
        your editing area. These suggestions may include:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Templates and functions for XSLT.</li>
        <li>Data type definitions in XSD.</li>
        <li>Validation rules for Schematron.</li>
        <li>Object and property structures for JSON Schema.</li>
      </ul>
      <p>The suggestions appear subtly inline and can be accepted instantly using a keyboard
        shortcut.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="positron_preferences">
      <title>Enabling AI Autocompletion</title>
      <p id="p_ett_pyt_chc">To enable the AI Autocompletion feature, got to the <uicontrol>Smart
          Autocompletion</uicontrol> page within the AI Positron Preferences and configure the
        following options:</p>
      <ul id="ul_ftt_pyt_chc">
        <li id="li_gtt_pyt_chc"><b>Enable Smart Autocomplete</b> - When selected, the AI Positron
          provides autocompletion context-aware code snippet suggestions based on the current file
          content and structure.</li>
        <li id="li_htt_pyt_chc"><b>Model</b> - Specifies which AI model is used for generating
          autocompletion suggestions. Each model consumes a certain number of credits per token. If
          no other model is chosen, the <i>gpt-4.1</i> model is used by default.</li>
        <li id="li_itt_pyt_chc"><b>Editor Type Selection </b> - Displays a table with all supported
            <b>Oxygen</b> editors types where AI autocompletion can be activated. Use the checkboxes
          within this table to select which editors should have Smart Autocomplete enabled.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="accepting_and_using_suggestions">
      <title>Accepting and Using Suggestions</title>
      <p>When Positron displays a suggestion:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Press <uicontrol><shortcut>Tab</shortcut></uicontrol> on your keyboard to accept and
          insert it into your code.</li>
        <li>Continue typing to refine or override the suggestion.</li>
        <li>If the proposal is not suitable, simply keep typing and the AI Positron will adapt its
          next recommendation.</li>
      </ol>
      <p>This design ensures that AI assistance feels natural and unobtrusive, never interrupting
        your normal workflow.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="adaptive_and_contextaware_behavior">
      <title>Adaptive and Context-Aware Behavior</title>
      <p>The AI engine continuously adapts to your current context:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Suggestions automatically adjust as you edit or change nearby code.</li>
        <li>The assistant recognizes language-specific syntax and structural rules (e.g. XSLT
          templates, XSD elements).</li>
        <li>The more context it has in your file, the more precise its completions become.</li>
      </ul>
      <p>This adaptability makes it ideal for complex projects where structures evolve quickly.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="supported_file_types">
      <title>Supported File Types</title>
      <p>AI autocompletion is optimized for:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>XSLT - Templates, functions, and XPath expressions.</li>
        <li>XSD - Schema elements, type definitions, and constraints.</li>
        <li>JSON Schema - Object structures, keywords, and property patterns.</li>
        <li>Schematron - Rules, assertions, and diagnostics.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="performance_and_optimization">
      <title>Performance and Optimization</title>
      <p>AI autocompletion runs efficiently in the background. To maintain a smooth editing
        experience:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Suggestions are generated asynchronously to avoid slowing down typing.</li>
        <li>Large or complex files may cause a brief delay before suggestions appear.</li>
        <li>You can disable or adjust AI auto-completion in the add-on’s
            <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol> page if needed.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="customization">
      <title>Customization</title>
      <p>Developers can fine-tune how AI auto-completion behaves:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Enable or disable inline suggestions for specific file types.</li>
        <li>Combine with other AI Positron features (such as the <uicontrol>Generate
            Code</uicontrol> or <uicontrol>Explain Code</uicontrol> actions) for a richer editing
          experience.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="limitations">
      <title>Limitations</title>
      <p>To ensure accuracy and user control, the following boundaries apply:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>AI auto-completion does not generate entire files.</li>
        <li>It provides incremental, inline assistance only.</li>
        <li>Graphical or visual content suggestions are not supported.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
