<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ai_positron_apikey_encryption_addon">
  <title>Oxygen AI Positron API Key Encryption Add-on</title>
    <body>
    <section id="section_fzv_ln3_vfc">
      <title><b>Installation</b></title>
      <p>To install this add-on, follow these steps:<ol id="ol_o4n_nn3_vfc">
          <li>Go to <b>Help</b> > <b>Install new add-ons</b> to open the add-on selection dialog
            box. Enter or paste
              <b>https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Addons/default/updateSite.xml</b> in the <b>Show
              add-ons from</b> field or select it from the drop-down menu.</li>
          <li>Select the <b>Oxygen AI Positron API Key Encryption</b> add-on and click
            <b>Next</b>.</li>
          <li>Read the end-user license agreement. Then select the <b>I accept all terms of the
              end-user license agreement</b> option and click <b>Install</b>.</li>
          <li>Restart the application.</li>
        </ol><b>Result:</b> The <b>API Key Tools</b> menu will be available.</p>
      <p>Alternatively, you can install the add-on by downloading the JAR file from the <xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Addons/default/com/oxygenxml/oxygen-ai-positron-vertex-ai-connector-addon/"
          format="html" scope="external">Releases page</xref> and unzipping it inside {<ph
          keyref="product"/>InstallDir}/plugins. Ensure there are no intermediate folders and that
        the plugin.xml file is present in the correct location. </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_encrypt_decrypt">
      <title>Encrypting and Decrypting API Keys for the Configuration File</title>
      <p>To securely store your API key in the <b>local-ai-service-configuration.json</b>
        configuration file for the Oxygen AI Positron Assistant Enterprise add-on, use the
          <b>oxygen-ai-positron-apikey-encryption-addon</b>. This add-on provides tools to encrypt
        your API key before adding it to the configuration file, and to decrypt it for verification
        purposes.</p>
    </section>
      <section id="section_wgm_343_vfc">
        <title>Encrypting the API Key</title>
        <ol id="ol_xgm_343_vfc">
          <li>
            <b>Install the Encryption Add-on:</b> Make sure the
              <uicontrol>oxygen-ai-positron-apikey-encryption-addon</uicontrol> is installed. </li>
          <li>
            <b>Open API Key Tools:</b> In the main menu, select <uicontrol>API Key
            Tools</uicontrol>. </li>
          <li>
            <b>Encrypt the API Key:</b> Choose <uicontrol>Encrypt...</uicontrol> from the menu.
            Enter your encryption key and the API key you want to protect. The tool will generate an
            encrypted version of your API key. </li>
          <li>
            <b>Publish the Encrypted Key:</b> Publish both the encryption key and the encrypted API
            key to the URLs referenced in your
              <filepath>local-ai-service-configuration.json</filepath> configuration file (for
            example, <codeph>ai_key_param_encrypted</codeph> and
            <codeph>ai_key_param_seed</codeph>). </li>
        </ol>
      </section>
      <section id="section_ygm_343_vfc">
        <title>Decrypting the API Key (Verification)</title>
        <p> To verify that your API key was encrypted correctly, you can use the
            <uicontrol>Decrypt</uicontrol> action: </p>
        <ol id="ol_zgm_343_vfc">
          <li>
            <b>Open API Key Tools:</b> Go to <uicontrol>API Key Tools</uicontrol> in the main menu. </li>
          <li>
            <b>Decrypt the API Key:</b> Select <uicontrol>Decrypt...</uicontrol> from the menu.
            Enter the encryption key and the encrypted API key. The tool will display the original
            API key, allowing you to confirm the encryption process was successful. </li>
        </ol>
        <p>
          <b>Note:</b> The Encrypt and Decrypt actions are always available in the API Key Tools
          menu. </p>
      </section>
      <p>By following these steps, you can securely manage your API key and ensure it is only
      accessible to authorized users. This also makes it easy to configure the AI service using the
        <b>local-ai-service-configuration.json</b> file.</p>
  
  </body>
</topic>
