<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="allowed-users">
  <title>Configuring a License Server to Only Allow Certain Users</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>HTTP floating license server<indexterm>Allowed users list</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_kjn_bgk_54b">A system administrator can configure the license server to only allow
      specific users to request a license. This is available only for named-user licenses (not
      floating licenses) and is managed using an <i>Allowed Users List</i>.</p>
    <p id="p_mmy_ddc_v4b">To configure an <i>Allowed Users List</i>:<ol id="ol_qrb_gdc_v4b">
        <li id="li_rrb_gdc_v4b">Create a text file named <b>allowed-users.txt</b>.</li>
        <li id="li_hw2_hdc_v4b">Enter the user name for each allowed user on a separate line.</li>
        <li id="li_lb1_ndc_v4b">Save the file in the license server work directory. You can go to
          the license server management page, and under <i>Management Tasks</i>, click the
            <uicontrol>Allowed users list</uicontrol> link to open a page where you can see the
          exact directory where it needs to be stored.<note id="note_ybj_t2c_v4b">If the
              <filepath>allowed-users.txt</filepath> file is present but it is empty, all users are
            allowed to request a license.</note></li>
      </ol></p>
    <p id="p_wy4_wdc_v4b">In the license server management page, there is a link to the
        <uicontrol>Allowed users list</uicontrol> under <i>Management Tasks</i>. Also, in the
        <uicontrol>Current Allocated Licenses</uicontrol> page, there is a <uicontrol>Show allowed
        users</uicontrol> button. Both of them direct you to a page where you can see the allowed
      users list (if one has already been configured), along with instructions for configuring one.
      The list updates automatically between license requests every 30 seconds if the file is
      changed.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
