<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ant-transformation-parameters-tab">
  <title>Parameters Tab (Ant Transformations)</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Ant transformation scenario<indexterm>Parameters tab</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_bxl_cgk_54b"><ph conkeyref="reusables-transforming-documents/intro-for-transformation-tabs"/></p>
    <p id="p_cxl_cgk_54b">The <uicontrol>Parameters</uicontrol> tab allows you to configure the parameters that are
      accessible as Ant properties in the Ant build script.</p>
    <p id="p_dxl_cgk_54b">The table displays all the parameters that are available in the Ant build script, along with
      their description and current values. You can also add, edit, and remove parameters, and use
      the <uicontrol>Filter</uicontrol> text box to search for a specific term in the entire
      parameters collection. Note that edited parameters are displayed with their name in bold.</p>
    <p id="p_exl_cgk_54b">Depending on the type of a parameter, its value can be one of the following:<ul
        id="ul_xxp_nvf_br">
        <li id="li_fxl_cgk_54b">A simple text field for simple parameter values.</li>
        <li id="li_gxl_cgk_54b">A combo box with some predefined values.</li>
        <li id="li_hxl_cgk_54b">A file chooser and an <xref href="editor-variables.dita#editor-variables" format="dita"
            >editor variable</xref> selector to simplify setting a file path as the value of a
          parameter.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <note id="note_ixl_cgk_54b">To input parameter values at runtime, use the <xref
        href="editor-variables.dita#editor-variables/edVar-ask"><i>ask</i> editor variable</xref> in
      the <uicontrol>Value</uicontrol> column.</note>
    <p id="p_jxl_cgk_54b">Below the table, the following actions are available for managing parameters:<dl id="dl_kxl_cgk_54b">
        <dlentry conkeyref="reusables-transforming-documents/new-dlentry" id="dlentry_lxl_cgk_54b">
          <dt/>
          <dd/>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry conkeyref="reusables-transforming-documents/edit-dlentry" id="dlentry_mxl_cgk_54b">
          <dt/>
          <dd/>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry conkeyref="reusables-transforming-documents/delete-dlentry" id="dlentry_nxl_cgk_54b">
          <dt/>
          <dd/>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
    <p id="p_oxl_cgk_54b"><ph product="developer editor">These parameters are also available for the built-in
        validation processor and the <xref keyref="glossentry_content-completion-assistant"
            ><term>Content Completion Assistant</term></xref>.</ph></p>
  </body>
  <related-links product="developer editor">
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="content-completion-ant.dita#content-completion-ant"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
