<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ant-build-file-contextual-editing">
  <title>Modular Contextual Ant Build File Editing Using 'Main Files' Support</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Ant build files<indexterm>Editing in Main Files context</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_d3b_cgk_54b">Smaller interrelated modules that define a complex Ant build file cannot be correctly edited
      or validated individually due to their interdependency with other modules. For example, a
        <i>target</i> defined in a main build file is not visible when you edit an included or
      imported module. <ph keyref="product"/> provides support for defining the main module (or
      modules), allowing you to edit any of the imported/included files in the context of the larger
      Ant build structure.</p>
    <p id="p_e3b_cgk_54b">You cat set a main Ant build file either by using the <xref
        href="defining_main_files.dita#defining_main_files"><term>main files</term> support
        from the <uicontrol>Project</uicontrol> view</xref>, or <xref
        href="associate-ant-validation-scenario.dita#associate-ant-validation-scenario">a validation
        scenario</xref>.</p>
    <p id="p_f3b_cgk_54b">To set a <term>main file</term> using a validation scenario, add validation units that
      point to the main modules. <ph keyref="product"/> warns you if the current module is not part
      of the dependencies graph computed for the main build file. In this case, it considers the
      current module as the main build file.</p>
    <p id="p_g3b_cgk_54b">The advantages of editing in the context of <xref keyref="glossentry_main-file"
          ><term>main file</term></xref> include: <ul id="ul_h3b_cgk_54b">
        <li id="li_i3b_cgk_54b">Correct validation of a module in the context of a larger build structure.</li>
        <li id="li_j3b_cgk_54b"><xref keyref="glossentry_content-completion-assistant"><term>Content Completion
              Assistant</term></xref> displays all components valid in the current context.</li>
        <li id="li_k3b_cgk_54b">The <xref href="ant-outline.dita#ant-outline"><uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol> view</xref>
          displays the components collected from the entire build file structure.</li>
      </ul></p>
  </body>
</topic>
