<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="api_faq_plugin_framework_difference">
  <title>Difference Between a Framework (Document Type) and a Plugin Extension</title>
  <body>
    <section id="question">
      <title>Question</title>
      <p id="p_j3g_dgk_54b">What is the difference between a <xref keyref="glossentry_framework"
          ><term>Framework</term></xref> and a <xref keyref="glossentry_plugin"
          ><term>Plugin</term></xref> Extension?</p>
    </section>
    <section id="answer">
      <title>Answer</title>
      <p id="p_k3g_dgk_54b">There are two possible ways to customize the application:</p>
      <ol id="ol_wbj_dzk_5h">
        <li id="li_l3g_dgk_54b">
          <p id="p_m3g_dgk_54b">Implement a <term>plugin</term>.</p>
          <p id="p_n3g_dgk_54b">A <term>plugin</term> serves a general purpose and influences any type of XML file that
            you open in <ph keyref="product"/>.</p>
          <p id="p_o3g_dgk_54b">For the <ph keyref="product"/> Plugins API, Javadoc, samples, and documentation, go to
              <xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/oxygen_sdk.html#Developer_Plugins" format="html"
              scope="external"/>
          </p>
        </li>
        <li id="li_p3g_dgk_54b">
          <p id="p_q3g_dgk_54b"><xref href="framework-customization-extending.dita"
              product="author editor">Create or modify the document type</xref><ph
              product="developer">Create or modify the document type</ph> that is associated to your
            specific XML vocabulary.</p>
          <p id="p_r3g_dgk_54b">This document type can be used, for instance, to provide custom actions for your type
            of XML files and to mount them on the toolbar, menus, and contextual menus.</p>
          <p id="p_s3g_dgk_54b">For example, if the end-users are editing DITA documents, all the
            toolbar actions that are specific for DITA are provided by the DITA
              <term>framework</term>. If you look in the <ph
              conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/preferences-document-type-association"/> there
            is a <i>DITA</i> document type. If you edit that document type you will see that it has
            an <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> tab in the <xref
              href="the-document-type-dialog.dita#the-document-type-dialog"><uicontrol>Document Type
                Configuration</uicontrol> dialog box</xref>. The subtabs in this tab can be used to
            define custom DITA actions and add them to the toolbars, main menus, or contextual
            menus.</p>
          <p id="p_t3g_dgk_54b" product="author editor">For information about developing your own
            document types (<term>frameworks</term>), see the <xref
              keyref="chapter_authoring-customization-guide"/> section.</p>
          <p id="p_u3g_dgk_54b">If you look on disk in the <filepath><term
                conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"/>\frameworks\dita</filepath>
            folder, there is a file called <filepath>dita.framework</filepath>. That file gets
            updated when you edit a document type from the <ph
              conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/preferences-document-type-association"/>. Then
            you can share that updated file with all users.</p>
          <p id="p_v3g_dgk_54b">The same folder contains some <xref keyref="glossentry_jar"><term>JAR</term></xref>
            libraries. These libraries contain custom Java operations that are called when the user
            presses certain toolbar actions.</p>
          <p id="p_w3g_dgk_54b">The <i>Oxygen SDK</i> contains the Java sources from all the DITA Java
            customizations:</p>
          <p id="p_x3g_dgk_54b"><xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/oxygen_sdk.html#XML_Editor_Authoring_SDK"
              format="html" scope="external"/>
          </p>
        </li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    <note product="author editor" type="important" id="note_y3g_dgk_54b">It is possible for a <term>plugin</term> to share
      the same classes with a <term>framework</term>. For further details, go to <xref
        href="../topics/share-classloader-between-framework-and-plugin.dita#share-classloader-between-framework-and-plugin"
        >How to Share the Classloader Between a Framework and a Plugin</xref>.</note>
  </body>
  <related-links product="author editor">
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="addCustomActionHowTo.dita"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
