<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_e1l_pbf_5h">
  <title>Highlight Content</title>
  <body>
    <section>
      <title>Question</title>
      <p>How can we add custom highlights to the Author document content?</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Answer</title>
      <p>There are two types of highlights you can add:<ol id="ol_bhv_syg_vh">
          <li>
            <p>Not Persistent Highlights. Such highlights are removed when the document is closed
              and then re-opened.</p>
            <p>You can use the following API
              method:<codeblock>ro.sync.exml.workspace.api.editor.page.author.WSAuthorEditorPageBase.getHighlighter()</codeblock>to
              obtain an <xref
                href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/ecss/extensions/api/highlights/AuthorHighlighter.html"
                format="html" scope="external">AuthorHighlighter</xref> which allows you to add a
              highlight between certain offsets with a certain painter.</p>
            <p>For example you can use this support to implement your custom spell checker.</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Persistent Highlights. Such highlights are saved in the XML content as processing
              instructions.</p>
            <p>You can use the following API
              method:<codeblock>ro.sync.exml.workspace.api.editor.page.author.WSAuthorEditorPageBase.getPersistentHighlighter()</codeblock>to
              obtain an <xref
                href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/ecss/extensions/api/highlights/AuthorPersistentHighlighter.html"
                format="html" scope="external">AuthorPersistentHighlighter</xref> which allows you
              to add a persistent highlight between certain offsets and containing certain custom
              properties and render it with a certain painter.</p>
            <p>For example you can use this support to implement your own way of adding review
              comments.</p>
          </li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
