<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="applet_webapp_comparison">
  <title>Feature Matrix</title>
  <shortdesc>Comparison between products of the oXygen family.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>The <ph keyref="authorComponent"/> was designed to provide the functionality of the standard
        <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode and can be embedded either in a third-party standalone
      Java application or customized as a Java Web Applet to provide WYSIWYG-like XML editing
      directly in your choice of web browsers.</p>
    <p>The Oxygen XML Web Author and Oxygen XML Web Author Component are re-implementations of the
        <ph keyref="product"/>
      <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode user interface, based on JavaScript and HTML5. Its purpose
      is to enable XML editing and reviewing on your mobile devices and desktops, directly in a web
      browser environment. Since the interface was thinned down as much as possible, the core XML
      processing was moved into a Java-enabled server.</p>
    <p>
      <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_j1b_d5h_br">
        <title>Feature Matrix Showing Differences Between Web Author, Web Author Component, and
          Author Component</title>
        <tgroup cols="4">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
          <colspec colname="newCol2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*" align="center"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="3" colwidth="1.0*" align="center"/>
          <colspec colname="c3" colnum="4" colwidth="1.0*" align="center"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Feature</entry>
              <entry>Oxygen XML Web Author</entry>
              <entry>Oxygen XML Web Author Component</entry>
              <entry><ph keyref="authorComponent"/></entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>Intended audience</entry>
              <entry>Reviewers and occasional contributors.</entry>
              <entry>Reviewers and occasional contributors.</entry>
              <entry>Content authors, technical writers.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Mobile device support</entry>
              <entry>Specifically designed for mobile devices.</entry>
              <entry>Specifically designed for mobile devices.</entry>
              <entry>No</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Compatibility with the standard version of <ph keyref="product"/></entry>
              <entry>Covers only editing and reviewing features.</entry>
              <entry>Covers only editing and reviewing features.</entry>
              <entry>100%</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> and <uicontrol>Grid</uicontrol> Mode</entry>
              <entry>No</entry>
              <entry>No</entry>
              <entry>Yes</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Client-side setup</entry>
              <entry>Yes, with an <i>Administration</i> page.</entry>
              <entry>Yes, with an <i>Administration</i> page.</entry>
              <entry>Requires Java to be installed, and Java Applets to be allowed to run.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Server-side setup</entry>
              <entry>Simply requires running an installer.</entry>
              <entry>Requires a servlet container and performing a Maven build.</entry>
              <entry>Requires a web server.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Ability to configure installation bundles</entry>
              <entry>No</entry>
              <entry>Yes</entry>
              <entry>Yes</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
