<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE troubleshooting PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Troubleshooting//EN" "troubleshooting.dtd">
<troubleshooting id="application-reports-errors-on-startup">
  <title>Application Reports Errors During Startup After Installing a New Version</title>
  <troublebody>
    <condition id="problem">
      <title>Problem</title>
      <p>Sometimes, after installing a new version of <ph keyref="product"/>, various errors are
        reported when the application starts.</p>
    </condition>
    <troubleSolution>
      <cause id="cause">
        <title>Cause</title>
        <p>This problem may occur if you install the application in a folder where an older version
          of the application was previously installed. Especially on Mac OS X, there is a
          possibility for older resources and libraries from the previous application to remain in
          the installation folder and break the functionality of the newer version of the
          application.</p>
      </cause>
      <remedy id="solution">
        <title>Solution</title>
        <steps-informal>
          <p>Close the application and completely <xref href="uninstall-application.dita">uninstall
              it</xref>, then install it again. The user-specific settings are saved in a separate
            folder in the user home directory so they will not be lost.<ul id="ul_yf4_rrd_rlb">
              <li>On Mac OS X, you can move the entire application installation folder to the
                  <uicontrol>Trash</uicontrol>, then re-install.</li>
              <li>On Linux and Windows, you can <xref href="uninstall-application.dita">uninstall
                  using the facilities provided by the installer</xref>, then re-install.</li>
            </ul></p>
          <p>If you intentionally want to load extra Java libraries with <ph keyref="product"/>, you have the following choices:<ul id="ol_zgr_zbl_5lb">
            <li>If the libraries are necessary for XSLT transformations, each XSLT transformation
                scenario has an <uicontrol>Extensions</uicontrol> button that allows you to
                reference the libraries directly from the transformation scenario.</li>
            <li>If the libraries are necessary for database connections, you can configure them when you define the data sources.</li>
            <li>You can <xref
                  href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/22.0/ug-editor/topics/oxygen-plugin.html"
                  format="html" scope="external">add a plugin</xref> in <ph keyref="product"/> that
                contributes libraries to the global libraries list. The plugin can be distributed as
                an add-on. An example of such a plugin can be found here: <xref
                  href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/oxygenxml.xlsx.import" format="import"
                  scope="external"/>.</li>
            <li>In the <ph keyref="product"/>
                <filepath>lib</filepath> folder, there is a file called
                  <filepath>libraries.list</filepath>. You can edit that file and add the names of
                the extra libraries present in the folder. You can also choose to delete that
                  <filepath>libraries.list</filepath> completely if you want to inhibit the
                libraries checking completely.</li>
            </ul></p>
        </steps-informal>
      </remedy>
    </troubleSolution>
  </troublebody>
</troubleshooting>
