<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="attributes-rendering-page">
  <title>Attributes Rendering Preferences</title>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> lets you <xref keyref="author_profiling-colors-and-styles">display the
        profiling attributes applied to your content</xref> in the <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol>
      mode editor. To configure how the profiling attributes appear, <ph
        conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Edit modes</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Profiling/Conditional Text</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Attributes Rendering</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>. When the <xref href="profiling-conditional-text-menu.dita"><uicontrol>Show
          Profiling Attributes</uicontrol> option</xref> is enabled, the
        <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode displays conditional text markers at the end of
      conditional text blocks. Use the options in this page to customize the rendering of these text
      markers.</p>
    <p>You can set the following options:<ul>
        <li><uicontrol>Show profiling attribute name</uicontrol> - If checked, the names of the
          profiling attributes are displayed with their values. If unchecked, only the values are
          displayed.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Background color</uicontrol> - Sets the background color used to display the
          profiling attributes.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Attribute name foreground color</uicontrol> - Sets the foreground color used
          to display the names of the profiling attributes.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Attribute values foreground color</uicontrol> - Sets the foreground color used
          to display values of the profiling attributes.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Border color</uicontrol> - Sets the color of the border of the block that
          displays the profiling attributes.</li>
      </ul></p>
  </body>
</topic>
