<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="author-dita-map-transformation-scenarios">
  <title>DITA Map Transformation Scenarios</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Transformation Scenarios<indexterm>DITA map</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>DITA Maps<indexterm>Transformation scenarios</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>DITA Map transformations</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>The following types of transformations scenarios are available for <xref
        keyref="glossentry_ditamap"><term>DITA maps</term></xref>:<ul>
        <li>Predefined transformation scenarios allow you to transform a <term>DITA map</term> to a
          variety of outputs, such as PDF, ODF, XHTML, WebHelp, EPUB, and CHM files. </li>
        <li><uicontrol>Run DITA-OT Integrator</uicontrol> - Use this transformation scenario if you
          want to <ph product="developer developerEclipse">integrate a DITA-OT plugin</ph><xref
            href="dita-ot-install-plugin.dita#dita-ot-install-plugin"
            product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse">integrate a DITA-OT plugin</xref>.
          This scenario runs an Ant task that integrates all the plugins from the DITA-OT/plugins
          directory.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>DITA Map Metrics Report</uicontrol> - Use this type of transformation
          scenario if you want to generate a <term>DITA map</term> statistics report. They contain
          information such as: <ul id="ul_bg5_szl_n2">
            <li>The number of processed maps and topics.</li>
            <li>Content reuse percentage.</li>
            <li>Number of elements, attributes, words, and characters used in the entire <term>DITA
                map</term> structure.</li>
            <li>DITA conditional processing attributes used in the <term>DITA maps</term>.</li>
            <li>Words count.</li>
            <li>Information types such as number of containing <term>maps</term>,
                <term>bookmaps</term>, or topics.</li>
          </ul></li>
      </ul></p>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="edit-scenario-dialog.dita#edit-scenario-dialog"/>
      <link href="configure-transformation-dialog.dita#configure-transformation-dialog"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
