<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="author-outline-popup-menu">
  <title>The Contextual Menu of the Outline Tree</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>XML Outline View<indexterm>contextual menu</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>The contextual menu of the <uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol> tree contains the following actions:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Edit attributes</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Opens a dialog box that allow you to see and edit the attributes of the selected
            node.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Append child</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Insert before</uicontrol> and
              <uicontrol>Insert after</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Submenus that allow you to quickly insert new tags in the document at the place of the
            element selected in the <uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol> tree. The <uicontrol>Append
              child</uicontrol> submenu lists the names of all the elements which are allowed by the
            schema associated with the current document as child of the current element. The effect
            is the same as typing the '&lt;' character and selecting an element name from the popup
            menu offered by <xref href="streamline-with-content-completion.dita">the
                <uicontrol>Content Completion Assistant</uicontrol>.</xref> The <uicontrol>Insert
              before</uicontrol> and <uicontrol>Insert after</uicontrol> submenus list the elements
            which are allowed by the schema associated with the current document as siblings of the
            current element inserted immediately before respectively after the current element.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Cut</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Copy</uicontrol> and
              <uicontrol>Paste</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Usual text manipulation actions. <ph product="author editor">The content retains text
              attributes like color and font.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Paste </uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Pastes the clipboard content in the currently selected node. The <uicontrol>Paste
              Before</uicontrol> and <uicontrol>Paste After</uicontrol> variants of the
              <term>Paste</term> action allow you to paste the clipboard content before and after
            the currently selected node.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Delete</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Deletes the currently selected node.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Toggle Comment</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If the currently selected element is not commented, this action encloses it in an XML
            comment. Otherwise, it removes the comment.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Rename Element</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Allows you to rename the selected element. Alternatively, you can choose to rename all
            its siblings with the same name or all elements with the same name in the entire
            document.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol product="editor author">Expand More / Collapse All</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol product="editorEclipse authorEclipse">Expand All / Collapse
            All</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Expand / collapse the selection and all its children.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
    <note type="tip">You can copy, cut or delete multiple nodes in the
        <uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol> by using the contextual menu after selecting multiple nodes
      in the tree.</note>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link keyref="author.attributes-view"/>
  </related-links>
</topic>
