<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="author-user-roles">
  <title>Author Mode User Roles</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Author editing mode<indexterm>User roles</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>XML documents<indexterm>Author Mode editing<indexterm>User
            roles</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>User roles in Author Mode</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_ssw_bgk_54b">There are two main types of users for the <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode: <i>framework
        developers</i> and <i>content authors</i>.</p>
    <section id="framework_developers">
      <title>Framework Developers</title>
      <p id="p_tsw_bgk_54b">A <i>framework developer</i> is a technical person with advanced XML knowledge who defines
        the <xref keyref="glossentry_framework"><term>framework</term></xref> for authoring XML
        documents in the visual editor. Once the <term>framework</term> is created or edited by the
        developer, it is distributed as a deliverable component ready to plug into the application
        for the content authors.</p>
      <p id="p_usw_bgk_54b">The <term>framework</term> (document type) configuration defines a type of XML document by
        specifying all the details needed for editing the content of XML documents in
          <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode. </p>
      <p id="p_vsw_bgk_54b">The <term>framework</term> details that are created and customized by the developer
        include: </p>
      <ul id="ul_wsw_bgk_54b">
        <li id="li_xsw_bgk_54b">The CSS stylesheet that drives the visual rendering of the document.</li>
        <li id="li_ysw_bgk_54b">The rules for associating an XML schema with the document, which is needed for the
          content completion assistance and validation of the document.</li>
        <li id="li_zsw_bgk_54b">Transformation scenarios for the document.</li>
        <li id="li_atw_bgk_54b">Configuration of <xref keyref="glossentry_xml-catalog"><term>XML
          Catalogs</term></xref>.</li>
        <li id="li_btw_bgk_54b">Custom actions available as buttons on the toolbar or in menus.</li>
      </ul>
      <p id="p_ctw_bgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> includes some ready-to-use built-in document types for XML
          <term>frameworks</term>, such as DocBook, DITA, TEI, JATS, and XHTML.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="content_authors">
      <title>Content Authors</title>
      <p id="p_dtw_bgk_54b">A <i>content author</i> does not need to have advanced knowledge about XML markup,
        operations such as validation of XML documents, or applying XPath expressions to an XML
        document. The content author just uses the <term>framework</term> set up by the developer in
        the application and starts editing the content of XML documents without editing the XML tags
        directly.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
