<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="author-dita-map-doc-type">
  <title>DITA Map Document Type (Framework)</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Predefined frameworks<indexterm>DITA Map</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>DITA Map document type</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><xref keyref="glossentry_ditamap"><term>DITA maps</term></xref> are documents that collect
      and organize references to DITA topics to indicate the relationships between the topics. They
      can be used as a container for topics used to transform a collection of content into a
      publication and they offer a sequence and structure to the topics. They can also serve as
      outlines or tables of contents for DITA deliverables and as build manifests for DITA projects.
        <term>DITA maps</term> allow scalable reuse of content across multiple contexts. Maps can
      reference topics or other maps, and can contain a variety of content types and metadata.</p>
    <p product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse">For much more detailed information,
      resources, and instructions, see the <xref href="author-dita.dita#author-dita"/> chapter.</p>
    <section id="file_definition">
      <title>File Definition</title>
      <p>A file is considered to be a <term>DITA map</term> document when one of the following
        conditions are true:<ul>
          <li>The root element name is one of the following: <codeph>map</codeph>,
              <codeph>bookmap</codeph>.</li>
          <li>The public ID of the document is <codeph>-//OASIS//DTD DITA Map</codeph> or
              <codeph>-//OASIS//DTD DITA BookMap</codeph>.</li>
          <li>The root element of the file has an attribute named <codeph>class</codeph> that
            contains the value <codeph>map/map</codeph> and a <codeph>DITAArchVersion</codeph>
            attribute from the <i>http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/</i> namespace. This
            enhanced case of matching is only applied when the <xref
              href="preferences-document-type-association.dita#preferences-document-type-association/enable-dtd-schema-processing"
                ><uicontrol>Enable DTD/XML Schema processing in document type detection</uicontrol>
              option</xref> from the <ph
              conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/preferences-document-type-association"/> is
            selected.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section id="document_templates">
      <title>Default Document Templates</title>
      <p>There are a variety of default <term>DITA map</term> templates available when creating
          <xref href="new-dialog-sa.dita#new-dialog-sa" product="author developer editor">new
          documents from templates</xref><xref
          href="creating-from-templates.dita#creating-from-templates"
          product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">new documents from templates</xref>
        and they can be found in various folders inside: <menucascade>
          <uicontrol>Framework Templates</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>DITA Map</uicontrol>
        </menucascade>.</p>
      <p>The default templates for <term>DITA map</term> documents are located in the
            <filepath><term conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
          />/frameworks/sita/templates/map</filepath> folder. </p>
    </section>
    <section id="default_schema">
      <title>Default Schema for Validation and Content Completion</title>
      <p>Default schemas that are used if one is not detected in the <term>DITA map</term> document
        are stored in the various folders inside <filepath><term keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"
          />/dtd/</filepath> or <filepath><term keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"
        />/schema/</filepath>.</p>
    </section>
    <section product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse" id="default_css">
      <title>Default CSS</title>
      <p>The default CSS files used for rendering DITA content in <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode
        are stored in the various folders inside: <filepath><term
            conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"/>/frameworks/dita/css/</filepath>.</p>
      <p>By default, these default CSS files are merged with any that are specified in the document.
        For more information, see <xref
          href="selecting-combining-multiple-css-styles.dita#selecting-combining-multiple-css-styles"
        />.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="default_xml_catalog">
      <title>Default XML Catalogs</title>
      <p>The default <xref keyref="glossentry_xml-catalog"><term>XML Catalogs</term></xref> for the
          <term>DITA map</term> document type are as follows:<ul id="ul_ogy_fqf_fr">
          <li><filepath><term conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
              />/frameworks/dita/catalog.xml</filepath></li>
          <li><filepath><term keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"/>/catalog-dita.xml</filepath></li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section id="transformation_scenarios">
      <title>Transformation Scenarios</title>
      <p><ph keyref="product"/> includes numerous built-in transformation scenarios that allow you
        to transform <term>DITA maps</term> to a variety of outputs, such as WebHelp, PDF, ODF,
        XHTML, EPUB, and CHM. All of them are listed in the <uicontrol>DITA Map</uicontrol> section
        in the <xref href="configure-transformation-dialog.dita#configure-transformation-dialog"
            ><uicontrol>Configure Transformation Scenario(s)</uicontrol> dialog box</xref>.</p>
      <p>For more information, see the <xref
          href="author-dita-map-transformation-scenarios.dita#author-dita-map-transformation-scenarios"
        /> section.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="resources">
      <title>Resources</title>
      <p>
        <ul>
          <li><xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/dita/1.3/specs/" format="html" scope="external"
              >DITA Specifications</xref></li>
          <li><xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/dita/styleguide/webhelp-feedback/index.html"
              format="html" scope="external">DITA Style Guide Best Practices for Authors</xref></li>
          <li><xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/demo/DITA_Maps_Manager.html" format="html"
              scope="external">Oxygen Video Tutorial: DITA Maps Manager</xref></li>
        </ul>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link keyref="dita_root-map" product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse"/>
      <link href="author-dita.dita#author-dita" product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse"/>
      <link href="eppo-first-dita-topic.dita#eppo-first-dita-topic"
        product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse"/>
      <link href="editing-xml-documents-author.dita#editing-xml-documents-author"
        product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse"/>
      <link href="xml-editor-specific-actions.dita#xml-editor-specific-actions"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
