<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="author-image-rendering-jai">
  <title>Rendering Special Images with Java Advanced Imaging (JAI) Plugin</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Author editing mode<indexterm>Image rendering<indexterm>JAI
            images</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>XML documents<indexterm>Author Mode editing<indexterm>Image
                rendering<indexterm>JAI images</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>JAI images in Author mode</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>Certain special image types can be rendered in <ph keyref="product"/> by using a Java
      Advanced Imaging (JAI) Image I/O Tools plugin.</p>
    <section id="how_to_install_jai_image_io_tools_plugin">
      <title>How to Install JAI Image I/O Tools Plugin</title>
      <p>To install this plug, follow this procedure:<ol>
          <li>Start <ph keyref="product"/> and open the <menucascade>
              <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>About</uicontrol>
            </menucascade> dialog box. <ph product="authorEclipse editorEclipse">Click the
                <uicontrol>Installation Details</uicontrol> button, go to the
                <uicontrol>Configuration</uicontrol> tab,</ph><ph product="author editor">Go to the
                <uicontrol>System properties</uicontrol> tab</ph> and look for the
                <i><codeph>java.runtime.name</codeph></i> and <i><codeph>java.home</codeph></i>
            properties. Keep their values for later use.</li>
          <li>Download the JAI Image I/O kit corresponding to your operating system and Java
            distribution (found in the <i><codeph>java.runtime.name</codeph></i> property). A list
            of archived JAI distributions can be found at: <xref
              href="http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javasebusiness/downloads/java-archive-downloads-java-client-419417.html"
              format="html" scope="external"/>.<note>The JAI API is not the same thing as JAI Image
              I/O. Make sure you have installed the latter.</note></li>
          <li>Run the installer. When the installation wizard displays the <b>Choose Destination
              Location</b> page, fill-in the <b>Destination Folder</b> field with the value of the
                <i><codeph>java.home</codeph></i> property. Continue with the installation procedure
            and follow the on-screen instructions.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="os_x_workaround">
      <title>OS X Workaround</title>
      <p>There is no native implementation of the JAI Image I/O Tools plugin for OS X 10.5 and
        later. However, it has a Java implementation fallback that also works on OS X. Some of the
        image formats are not fully supported in this fallback mode, but at least the TIFF image
        format is known to be supported.</p>
      <p>Use the following procedure for this OS X workaround:<ol>
          <li>Download a Linux (<filepath>tar.gz</filepath>) distribution of the JAI Image I/O Tools
            plugin. A list of archived JAI distributions can be found at: <xref
              href="http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javasebusiness/downloads/java-archive-downloads-java-client-419417.html"
              format="html" scope="external"/>.</li>
          <li>In the <filepath><term conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
              />/lib</filepath> directory, create a directory named <filepath>endorsed</filepath>
                (<filepath><term conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
              />/lib/endorsed</filepath>).</li>
          <li>Unpack the <codeph>tar.gz</codeph>. Copy the <filepath>clibwrapper_jiio.jar</filepath>
            and <filepath>jai_imageio.jar</filepath> files from its <codeph>lib</codeph> directory
            and paste them in the <filepath><term conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
              />/lib/endorsed</filepath> directory.</li>
          <li>Restart the application and the JAI Image I/O support will be up and running.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
