<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="author-dita">
  <title>DITA Authoring</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>DITA Authoring and Publishing</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_icl_dgk_54b"><i>DITA</i> is an XML standard, an architectural approach, and a writing methodology,
      developed by technical communicators for technical communicators. It provides a standardised
      architectural <xref keyref="glossentry_framework"><term>framework</term></xref> for a common
      structure for content that promotes the consistent creation, sharing, and re-use of
      content.</p>
    <p id="p_jcl_dgk_54b">Some of the benefits of using DITA include the following:<ul id="ul_kcl_dgk_54b">
        <li id="li_lcl_dgk_54b"><b>Flexibility</b> - DITA is a topic-based architecture and it offers flexibility in
          content organization.</li>
        <li id="li_mcl_dgk_54b"><b>Modularity</b> - DITA allows for content reuse that saves time and reduces the number
          of modifications.</li>
        <li id="li_ncl_dgk_54b"><b>Structured Authoring</b> - DITA offers a standardized, methodological approach that
          helps to reduce authoring time and improve consistency.</li>
        <li id="li_ocl_dgk_54b"><b>Single-Source Publishing</b> - DITA provides the ability to change content in one
          place and have the change propagate everywhere.</li>
        <li id="li_pcl_dgk_54b"><b>Multiple Output Formats</b> - DITA supports multiple types of output.</li>
        <li id="li_qcl_dgk_54b"><b>Inheritance</b> - The DITA inheritance model makes it easy to specialize topics or
          elements within topics and you only have to define how the element is different from its
          immediate ancestor.</li>
        <li id="li_rcl_dgk_54b"><b>Process Automation</b> - DITA offers various ways to automate processes, such as with
          index or glossary production, output delivery, validation, and more.</li>
        <li id="li_scl_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>Specialization</uicontrol> - DITA allows you to define your own information
          types and semantic elements/attributes to suit the needs of your particular content
          model.</li>
        <li id="li_tcl_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>Multi-Lingual</uicontrol> - DITA is a translation-friendly structure that
          supports numerous languages and text encodings.</li>
        <li id="li_ucl_dgk_54b"><b>Conditional Profiling</b> - DITA supports conditional text processing and profiling
          to filter content in the publishing stage.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p id="p_vcl_dgk_54b">This chapter is designed to be a guide to help content authors who use DITA. It also presents
      the <ph keyref="product"/> features that are specific to working with DITA documents and
      concepts.</p>
    <section id="dita_resources">
      <title>DITA Resources</title>
      <p id="p_wcl_dgk_54b">For more information and technical details about working with DITA,
        refer to the following resources:<ul id="ul_xcl_dgk_54b">
          <li id="li_ycl_dgk_54b"><xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/dita/1.3/specs/"
              format="html" scope="external">The DITA Specifications</xref>.</li>
          <li id="li_zcl_dgk_54b"><xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/dita/styleguide/index.html"
              format="html" scope="external">The DITA Style Guide Best Practices for
            Authors</xref>.</li>
          <li id="li_adl_dgk_54b">Various sample DITA topics and maps can be found in the
                <filepath><term conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
              />/samples/dita</filepath> folder.</li>
          <li id="li_r11_2w5_ypb">Webinar: <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/events/2020/webinar_getting_started_with_dita_using_oxygen_xml_editor.html"
              format="html" scope="external"><b>Getting Started with DITA Using
            Oxygen</b></xref></li>
          <li id="li_kfp_yj2_bxb">Webinar: <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/events/2023/webinar_dita_project_management_validation_and_translation_in_a_docs_as_code_environment.html"
              format="html" scope="external"><b>DITA Project Management, Validation, and Translation
                in a Docs as Code Environment</b></xref></li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
      <link href="author-dita-doc-type.dita#author-dita-doc-type"/>
      <link href="author-dita-map-doc-type.dita#author-dita-map-doc-type"/>
  </related-links>
</topic>
