<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="author-document-type-extension-sharing">
  <title>Sharing an Extended Framework (Document Type)</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Framework customization<indexterm>Sharing</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Framework customization<indexterm>Extending</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Sharing frameworks</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Extending frameworks</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>You can extend a built-in <xref keyref="glossentry_framework"><term>framework</term></xref>
      (document type), such as DITA or DocBook, using the <ph
        conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/preferences-document-type-association"/>, make
      modifications to it, and then share the extension with your team. </p>
    <section id="extending_a_framework_to_be_shared">
      <title>Extending a Framework</title>
      <p>For the purpose of providing specific instructions for sharing an extended
          <term>framework</term>, suppose that you want to share an extension of the <b>DITA</b>
        <term>framework</term> where you have removed certain elements from the content completion
        list. The following steps describe how you can create an extended <term>framework</term>
        that can be shared with others:<ol>
          <li>In a location where you have full write access, create a folder structure similar to
            this: <filepath>custom_frameworks/dita-extension</filepath>. </li>
          <li><ph conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/Open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to
              <xref href="framework-location.dita#framework-location"><menucascade>
                <uicontrol>Document Type Association</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>Locations</uicontrol>
              </menucascade></xref>. In this preferences page, add the path to your
              <filepath>custom_frameworks</filepath> folder in the <uicontrol>Additional frameworks
              directories</uicontrol> list.</li>
          <li>Go to the <ph
              conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/preferences-document-type-association"/> and
            select the <uicontrol>DITA</uicontrol>
            <term>framework</term> configuration and use the <uicontrol>Extend</uicontrol> button to
            create an extension for it.</li>
          <li>Give the extension an appropriate name (for example, <userinput>DITA -
              Custom</userinput>), select <uicontrol>External</uicontrol> for the
              <uicontrol>Storage</uicontrol> option, and specify an appropriate path (for example,
              <filepath>path/to/.../custom_frameworks/dita-extension/dita-extension.framework</filepath>).</li>
          <li>Make your changes to the extension. For example, you could go to the
              <uicontrol>Content Completion</uicontrol> subtab of the <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol>
            tab and in the <uicontrol>Filter - Remove content completion items</uicontrol> list, add
            elements that you do not want to be presented to the end users.</li>
          <li>Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> to close the dialog box and then
              <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> or <uicontrol>Apply</uicontrol> to save the changes to the
              <ph conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/preferences-document-type-association"
                />.<p><b>Results:</b> After you perform these steps you will have a fully functional
                <term>framework</term> in the <filepath>dita-extension</filepath> folder and it can
              be shared with others.</p></li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="sharing_the_extended_framework">
      <title>Sharing the Extended Framework</title>
      <p>There are several ways that you can share the extended <term>framework</term> with
          others:<ul id="ul_nsg_zbq_zs">
          <li>Distribute the directory of the extended <term>framework</term> to the other members
            of your team. They will simply copy that directory to their <filepath><term
                conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"/>/frameworks</filepath> directory.
            The new <term>framework</term> will be available in their list of document types when
              <ph keyref="product"/> starts.</li>
          <li product="author editor">Distribute the extended <term>framework</term> along with a
            project by following these steps:<ol id="ol_h4n_vpi_5m">
              <li>On your local drive, create a directory (with full write access) that contains the
                project files and a <filepath>custom_frameworks</filepath> folder with your extended
                  <term>framework</term> inside.</li>
              <li>Start <ph keyref="product"/>, go to the <xref href="using-the-project-view.dita"
                    ><uicontrol>Project</uicontrol> view</xref> and create a project. Save it in the
                newly created directory.</li>
              <li>Go to <xref href="framework-location.dita#framework-location"><menucascade>
                    <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol>Document Type Association</uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol>Locations</uicontrol>
                  </menucascade></xref> and select <xref keyref="glossentry_project-options"
                    ><b>Project Options</b></xref> at the bottom of the page.</li>
              <li>In the <uicontrol>Additional frameworks directories</uicontrol> list, add an entry
                using the <xref href="editor-variables.dita#editor-variables/edVar-pd"><b>${pd}</b>
                  editor variable</xref> like this:
                <filepath>${pd}/custom_frameworks</filepath>.</li>
              <li>Add other resources to your project (CSS files, new document templates, schemas
                used for validation, catalogs, etc.).</li>
              <li>You can then share the new project directory with other users. For example, you
                can commit it to your version control system and have them update their working
                copy. When they open the customized project file in the <xref
                  href="using-the-project-view.dita"><uicontrol>Project</uicontrol> view</xref>, the
                new <term>framework</term> becomes available in the list of document types.</li>
            </ol></li>
          <li product="author editor">Deploy the extended <term>framework</term> configuration as an
            add-on. To do so, follow the procedures in <xref
              href="packing-and-deploying-addons.dita#packing-and-deploying-addons"/>.</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p>To test the extended <term>framework</term>, the other members of your team can check the
        list of document types in the <ph
          conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/preferences-document-type-association"/> to see if
        the <term>framework</term> is present and if it appears before the built-in
          <term>frameworks</term> (meaning that it has higher priority).</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
