<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="author-component-troubleshooting">
  <title>Troubleshooting</title>
  <body>
    <p>When the applet fails to start:<ol>
        <li>Make sure that your web browser really runs the next generation Java plug-in and not the
                    legacy Java plug-in.<p>For Windows and Mac OSX the procedure is straight
                        forward. Some steps are given below for installing the Java plug-in on
                        Linux.</p><p>Manual Installation and Registration of Java Plugin for Linux:
                            <xref
                            href="http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/manual-plugin-install-linux-136395.html"
                            format="html" scope="external"
                            >http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/manual-plugin-install-linux-136395.html</xref></p></li>
        <li>Refresh the web page.</li>
        <li>Remove the Java Webstart cache from the local drive and try again.<ul>
            <li>On Windows this folder is located in:
                <filepath>%APPDATA%\LocalLow\Sun\Java\Deployment\cache</filepath>;</li>
            <li>On Mac OSX this folder is located in:
                <filepath>/Users/user_name/Library/Caches/Java/cache</filepath>;</li>
            <li>On Linux this folder is located in:
                <filepath>/home/user/.java/deployment/cache</filepath>.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Remove the Author Applet Frameworks cache from the local drive and try again:<ul>
            <li>On Windows Vista or 7 this folder is located in:
                <filepath>%APPDATA%\Roaming\com.oxygenxml.author.component</filepath>;</li>
            <li>On Windows XP this folder is located in:
                <filepath>%APPDATA%\com.oxygenxml.author.component</filepath>;</li>
            <li>On Mac OSX this folder is located in:
                <filepath>/Users/user_name/Library/Preferences/com.oxygenxml.author.component</filepath>;</li>
            <li>On Linux this folder is located in:
                <filepath>/home/user/.com.oxygenxml.author.component</filepath>.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Problems sometimes occur after upgrading the web browser and/or the JavaTM runtime.
          Redeploy the applet on the server by running ANT in your Author Component project.
          However, doing this does not always fix the problem, which often lies in the web browser
          and/or in the Java plug-in itself.</li>
        <li>Sometimes when the HTTP connection is slow on first time uses the JVM would simply shut
          down while the jars were being pushed to the local cache (i.e., first time uses). This
          shut down typically occurs while handling <filepath>oxygen.jar</filepath>. One of the
          reasons could be that some browsers (Firefox for example) implement some form of "Plugin
          hang detector" See <xref
            href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en/Plugins/Out_of_process_plugins/The_plugin_hang_detector"
            format="html" scope="external"
            >https://developer.mozilla.org/en/Plugins/Out_of_process_plugins/The_plugin_hang_detector</xref>.</li>
        <li>If you are running the Applet using Safari on MAC OS X and it has problems writing to
          disk or fails to start, do the following:<ul>
            <li>in Safari, go to <b>Safari</b>-><b>Preferences</b>-><b>Security</b>;</li>
            <li>select <b>Manage Website Settings</b>;</li>
            <li>then select Java and for the <b>oxygenxml.com</b> entry choose the <b>Run in Unsafe
                mode</b> option.</li>
          </ul></li>
      </ol></p>
    <p>Enable JavaWebstart logging on your computer to get additional debug information:<ol>
        <li>Open a console and run <codeph>javaws -viewer</codeph>;</li>
        <li>In the <b>Advanced</b> tab, expand the <b>Debugging</b> category and select all
          boxes.</li>
        <li>Expand the <b>Java console</b> category and choose <b>Show console</b>. </li>
        <li>Save settings.</li>
        <li>After running the applet, you will find the log files in:<ul>
            <li>On Windows this folder is located in:
                <filepath>%APPDATA%\LocalLow\Sun\Java\Deployment\log</filepath>;</li>
            <li>On Mac OSX this folder is located in:
                <filepath>/Users/user_name/Library/Caches/Java/log</filepath>;</li>
            <li>On Linux this folder is located in:
                <filepath>/home/user/.java/deployment/log</filepath>.</li>
          </ul></li>
      </ol></p>
  </body>
</topic>
