<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/task.dtd">
<task id="author-minimize-differences-between-saved-versions">
  <title>Minimize Differences Between Versions Saved on Multiple Computers</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Sharing project options file<indexterm>Minimize differences between
            versions</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <taskbody>
    <context>
      <p>The number of differences between versions of the same file saved by multiple content
        authors on multiple computers can be minimized by imposing the same set of formatting
        options when saving the file, for all the content authors. An example, the following
        procedure can be used to minimize the differences:</p>
    </context>
    <steps id="procedure-minimize-differences-between-versions-saved-in-Author">
      <step>
        <cmd>Create an <ph keyref="product"/> project file (<filepath>.xpr</filepath>) that will be
          shared by all content authors.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Configure your own formatting preferences. To do this, <ph
          conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"
          />, go to <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Format</uicontrol>
          </menucascade>, configure the appropriate options in this page, then go to <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Format</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>XML</uicontrol>
          </menucascade> and configure the options there.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Save the configured options into your project file by selecting <xref
            keyref="glossentry_project-options"><uicontrol>Project Options</uicontrol></xref> in
          both of the preferences pages.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Save the project and commit the project file to your versioning system so all the
          content authors can use it.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Make sure the project is opened in the <xref
            href="using-the-project-view.dita#using-the-project-view"
              ><uicontrol>Project</uicontrol> view</xref>.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Open and save your XML files in the <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Commit the saved XML files to your versioning system.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>
    <result>
      <p>When other content authors change the files, only the changed lines will be displayed in
        your diff tool instead of one big change that does not allow you to see the changes between
        two versions of the file.</p>
    </result>
  </taskbody>
</task>
