<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="author-dita-doc-type">
  <title>DITA Topics Document Type (Framework)</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Predefined frameworks<indexterm>DITA Topic</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>DITA Topic document type</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>The Darwin Information Typing Architecture (DITA) is an XML-based architecture for authoring,
      producing, and delivering technical information. It divides content into small, self-contained
      topics that you can reuse in various deliverables. The extensibility of DITA permits
      organizations to define specific information structures while still using standard tools to
      work with them. DITA content is created as topics, each an individual XML file. Typically,
      each topic has a defined primary objective and structure, and DITA also includes several
      specialized topic types (<i>task</i>, <i>concept</i>, <i>reference</i>, <i>glossary
      entry</i>).</p>
    <p>For much more detailed information, resources, and instructions, see the <xref
        href="author-dita.dita#author-dita"/> chapter.</p>
    <section id="file_definition">
      <title>File Definition</title>
      <p>A file is considered to be a DITA topic document when one of the following conditions are
        true:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>The root element name is one of the following: <codeph>concept</codeph>,
            <codeph>task</codeph>, <codeph>reference</codeph>, <codeph>dita</codeph>, or
            <codeph>topic</codeph>.</li>
        <li>The PUBLIC ID of the document is a PUBLIC ID for the elements listed above.</li>
        <li>The root element of the file has an attribute named <codeph>DITAArchVersion</codeph> for
          the <q>http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/</q> namespace. This enhanced case of
          matching is only applied when the <xref
            href="preferences-document-type-association.dita#preferences-document-type-association/enable-dtd-schema-processing"
              ><uicontrol>Enable DTD/XML Schema processing in document type detection</uicontrol>
            option</xref> is selected from the <ph
            conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/preferences-document-type-association"/>.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="document_templates">
      <title>Default Document Templates</title>
      <p>There are a variety of default <i>DITA topic</i> templates available when creating <xref
          href="new-dialog-sa.dita#new-dialog-sa" product="author developer editor">new documents
          from templates</xref><xref href="creating-from-templates.dita#creating-from-templates"
          product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">new documents from
        templates</xref>, including <uicontrol>Concept</uicontrol>,
        <uicontrol>Gossentry</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Reference</uicontrol>,
          <uicontrol>Task</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Topic</uicontrol>, and many more.</p>
      <p>The default templates for DITA topic documents are located in the <filepath><term
            conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
          />/frameworks/dita/templates/topic</filepath> folder. </p>
    </section>
    <section id="default_schema">
      <title>Default Schema for Validation and Content Completion</title>
      <p>Default schemas that are used if one is not detected in the DITA documents are stored in
        the various folders inside <filepath><term keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"/>/dtd/</filepath>
        or <filepath><term keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"/>/schema/</filepath>.</p>
    </section>
    <section product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse" id="default_css">
      <title>Default CSS</title>
      <p>The default CSS files used for rendering DITA content in <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode
        are stored in the various folders inside: <filepath><term
            conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"/>/frameworks/dita/css/</filepath>.</p>
      <p>By default, these default CSS files are merged with any that are specified in the document.
        For more information, see <xref
          href="selecting-combining-multiple-css-styles.dita#selecting-combining-multiple-css-styles"
        />.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="default_xml_catalogs">
      <title>Default XML Catalogs</title>
      <p>The default <xref keyref="glossentry_xml-catalog"><term>XML Catalogs</term></xref> for the
        DITA topic document type are as follows:<ul id="ul_ogy_fqf_fr">
          <li><filepath><term keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"/>/catalog-dita.xml</filepath></li>
          <li><filepath><term conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
              />/frameworks/dita/catalog.xml</filepath></li>
          <li><filepath><term conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
              />/frameworks/dita/plugin/catalog.xml</filepath></li>
          <li><filepath><term conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
              />/frameworks/dita/styleguide/catalog.xml</filepath></li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section id="transformation_scenarios">
      <title>Transformation Scenarios</title>
      <p><ph keyref="product"/> includes built-in transformation scenarios that allow you to
        transform individual DITA Topics to a XHTML or PDF output. They can be found in the
          <uicontrol>DITA</uicontrol> section in the <xref
          href="configure-transformation-dialog.dita#configure-transformation-dialog"
            ><uicontrol>Configure Transformation Scenario(s)</uicontrol> dialog box</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="resources">
      <title>Resources</title>
      <p>
        <ul>
          <li><xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/dita/1.3/specs/"
              format="html" scope="external">DITA Specifications</xref></li>
          <li><xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/dita/styleguide/webhelp-feedback/index.html"
              format="html" scope="external">DITA Style Guide Best Practices for Authors</xref></li>
          <li><xref format="html" scope="external"
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/demo/DITA_Editing.html">Oxygen Video Tutorial: DITA
              Editing</xref></li>
        </ul>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="author-dita.dita#author-dita" product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse"/>
      <link href="eppo-first-dita-topic.dita#eppo-first-dita-topic"
        product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse"/>
      <link href="editing-xml-documents-author.dita#editing-xml-documents-author"
        product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse"/>
      <link href="xml-editor-specific-actions.dita#xml-editor-specific-actions"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>