<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="author-image-rendering">
  <title>Image Rendering in Author Mode</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Author editing mode<indexterm>Image rendering</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>XML documents<indexterm>Author Mode editing<indexterm>Image
            rendering</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Image rendering in Author mode</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>The <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode and the output transformation process might render the
      images referenced in an XML document differently, since they use different rendering
      engines.</p>
    <table frame="all">
      <title>Supported Image Formats</title>
      <tgroup cols="3">
        <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.6*" colsep="1" rowsep="1"/>
        <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*" colsep="1" rowsep="1" align="center"/>
        <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="7*" colsep="1" rowsep="1"/>
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry>Image Type</entry>
            <entry>Support</entry>
            <entry>Additional Information</entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry>GIF</entry>
            <entry>built-in</entry>
            <entry>Animations not yet supported</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>JPG, JPEG</entry>
            <entry>built-in</entry>
            <entry><xref href="cmyk-color-space.dita">JPEG images with CMYK color profiles</xref>
              are properly rendered only if color profile is inside the image.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>PNG</entry>
            <entry>built-in</entry>
            <entry/>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>SVG, SVGZ, WMF</entry>
            <entry>built-in</entry>
            <entry>Rendered using the open-source Apache Batik library that supports SVG
              1.1.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>BMP</entry>
            <entry>built-in</entry>
            <entry/>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>TIFF</entry>
            <entry>built-in</entry>
            <entry>Rendered using a part of the Java JAI Image library.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>EPS</entry>
            <entry>built-in</entry>
            <entry>Renders the preview TIFF image inside the EPS.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>AI</entry>
            <entry>built-in</entry>
            <entry>Renders the preview image inside the Adobe Illustrator file.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>PDF</entry>
            <entry>built-in</entry>
            <entry>Rendered by using the bundled Apache PDF Box library. For versions older than
              20.0, you need to <xref href="installing-pdf-library.dita#installing-pdf-library"
                format="dita">install the Apache PDF Box library</xref>.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>JPEG 2000, WBMP</entry>
            <entry>plugin</entry>
            <entry>Renders by <xref
                href="../topics/author-image-rendering-jai.dita#author-image-rendering-jai"
                format="dita">installing the <i>Java Advanced Imaging (JAI) Image I/O Tools</i>
                plug-in</xref>.</entry>
          </row>
          <!--<row>
            <entry>CGM</entry>
            <entry>plugin</entry>
            <entry>Renders by <xref
                href="../future_topics/installing-cgm-library.dita#installing-cgm-library" format="dita"
                >installing an additional library</xref>.</entry>
          </row>-->
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
    <p>When an image cannot be rendered, <ph keyref="product"/>
      <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode displays a warning message that contains the reason why
      this is happening. Possible causes include the following:<ul>
        <li>The image is too large. Select the <xref
          keyref="options_author/show-very-large-images" format="dita"
              ><uicontrol>Show very large images</uicontrol> option</xref>.</li>
        <li>The image format is not supported by default. It is recommended to <xref
            href="../topics/author-image-rendering-jai.dita#author-image-rendering-jai" format="dita"
            >install the <i>Java Advanced Imaging(JAI) Image I/O Tools</i> plug-in</xref>.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <section id="scaling_images">
      <title>Scaling Images</title>
      <p>Image dimension and scaling attributes are taken into account when an image is rendered.
        The following rules apply:<ul>
          <li>If you specify only the width attribute of an image, the height of the image is
            proportionally applied.</li>
          <li>If you specify only the height attribute of an image, the width of the image is
            proportionally applied.</li>
          <li>If you specify width and height attributes of an image, both of them control the
            rendered image.</li>
          <li>If you want to scale both the width and height of an image proportionally, use the
              <codeph>scale</codeph> attribute.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <note>As a Java application, <ph keyref="product"/> uses the <i>Java Advanced Imaging</i> API
      that provides a pluggable support for new image types. If you have an <i>ImageIO</i> library
      that supports additional image formats, just copy this library to the <filepath><term
          conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"/>/lib</filepath> directory.</note>
  </body>
</topic>
