<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="author-change-tracking">
  <title>Reviewing Documents</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Author editing mode<indexterm>Review tools</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>XML documents<indexterm>Author Mode editing<indexterm>Review
            tools</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Review tools in Author Mode</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> includes a variety of helpful review tools that improve your ability
      to collaborate with other members of your team, track changes, mark content for various
      reasons, add comments in your content, and to manage the review features.</p>
    <section id="change-tracking">
      <title>Tracking Document Changes</title>
      <p>The <xref keyref="glossentry_track-changes"><term>Track Changes</term> feature</xref> is a
        way to keep track of the changes you make in a document. The <term>Track Changes</term>
        feature highlights changes that you make to the content in a document, as well as changes to
        attributes. Changes can be tracked for insertions and deletions. When the <xref
          href="author-managing-changes.dita#author-managing-changes/using_the_change_tracking_feature"
            ><term>Track Changes</term> feature is activated</xref>, insertions are rendered in
          <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode with an underline while deletions are rendered with a
        strike through.</p>
      <p>The <term>tracked changes</term> are also displayed in the <xref
          href="review-view.dita#review-view"><uicontrol>Review</uicontrol> view</xref> and you can
        also choose to present the changes in <xref href="author-callouts.dita#author-callouts"
          >callouts</xref> by selecting the <xref
          href="callouts-preferences-page.dita#callouts-preferences-page/track-changes-deletions"
            ><uicontrol>Track Changes Deletions</uicontrol></xref> and <xref
          href="callouts-preferences-page.dita#callouts-preferences-page/track-changes-insertions"
            ><uicontrol>Track Changes Insertions</uicontrol></xref> options in the <xref
          href="callouts-preferences-page.dita#callouts-preferences-page"
            ><uicontrol>Callouts</uicontrol> preferences page</xref>. </p>
    </section>
    <section id="author-comments">
      <title>Adding Comments in Documents</title>
      <p>You can associate a comment to a selected area of content. Comments can highlight virtually
        any content from your document, with the exception of <i>read-only</i> text. The difference
        between using comments and <term>change tracking</term> is that a comment can be associated
        to an area of text without modifying or deleting the text. </p>
      <p>Comments are presented in <xref href="author-callouts.dita#author-callouts">callouts</xref>
        with persistent highlights and a colored background. The background color is assigned
        automatically by the application, but it can also be customized from the <xref
          keyref="options_track-changes"><uicontrol>Review</uicontrol> preferences page</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="highlighting_content">
      <title>Highlighting Content</title>
      <p><ph keyref="product"/> includes a highlighting feature that allows you to create digital
        markers to emphasise important fragments of your documents. This is especially useful when
        you want to mark content that needs additional work or the attention of others.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="review_view">
      <title>Using the Review View</title>
      <p><ph keyref="product"/> includes a <xref href="review-view.dita#review-view"
            ><uicontrol>Review</uicontrol> view</xref> that provides a simplified way of monitoring
        all the insertions, deletions, comments, and highlights in an XML document. This handy tool
        is especially useful for large teams that need to gather and manage all the edits from all
        team members who are working on the same project.</p>
      <p>The <uicontrol>Review</uicontrol> view is also useful for managing <term>tracked
          changes</term> and comments in a single panel. In this view, the changes and comments are
        presented in a compact form, in the order they appear in the document, and they are
        synchronized with the changes and comments in the main editing area.</p>
      <p>You can use this view to quickly navigate through changes, accept or reject them, or to
        view and manage comments or highlights. You can also search for specific changes or comments
        and it includes some filtering options (for example, you can filter it to only show certain
        types of edits or to only show edits for a particular author).</p>
    </section>
    <section id="printing_review_information">
      <title>Printing Review Information</title>
      <p>When you print a document from <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode, whatever review
        information is shown in the main editing area will be included in the printed output. For
        example, <term>tracked changes</term> will be included and as long as the <xref
          href="callouts-preferences-page.dita#callouts-preferences-page/comments"
            ><uicontrol>Comments</uicontrol> option</xref> is selected in the <xref
          href="callouts-preferences-page.dita#callouts-preferences-page"
            ><uicontrol>Callouts</uicontrol> preferences page</xref>, comment callouts will also be
        included (same with <term>tracked change</term> callouts if their corresponding options are
        selected in the <xref href="callouts-preferences-page.dita#callouts-preferences-page"
            ><uicontrol>Callouts</uicontrol> preferences page</xref>.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>

