<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="author-docbook-assembly-doc-type">
  <title>DocBook Assembly (5.1 and Later)</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Built-in frameworks<indexterm>DocBook Assembly</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>DocBook Assembly</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_o2j_cgk_54b">The DocBook <i>Assembly</i> document type was introduced with DocBook 5.1 and it is used to
      define the hierarchy and relationships for a collection of resources. It is especially helpful
      for topic-oriented authoring scenarios since it assembles a set of resources (such as <xref
        href="author-docbook-topic-doc-type.dita#author-docbook-topic-doc-type">DocBook 5.1
          <i>topics</i></xref>) to form a hierarchical structure for a larger publication.</p>
    <p id="p_p2j_cgk_54b">An <i>Assembly</i> document usually has four major parts:<ul id="ul_q2j_cgk_54b">
        <li id="li_r2j_cgk_54b"><b>Resources</b> - Identifies a collection of resources (such as topics). An
            <i>Assembly</i> may identify one or more collections.</li>
        <li id="li_s2j_cgk_54b"><b>Structure</b> - Identifies an artifact to be assembled. A document in this case is
          the particular collection of resources (such as topics) that forms the documentation.
          Within the <xmlelement>structure</xmlelement> element, an <xmlelement>output</xmlelement> element can be
          used to identify the type of output to be generated and <xmlelement>module</xmlelement> elements
          can be used to identify the resources to be included. An <i>Assembly</i> may identify one
          or more <i>structures</i>.</li>
        <li id="li_t2j_cgk_54b"><b>Relationships</b> - Identifies relationships between resources. These relationships
          may be manifested in any number of <i>structures</i> during assembly. An <i>Assembly</i>
          may identify any number of relationships.</li>
        <li id="li_u2j_cgk_54b"><b>Transformations</b> - Identifies transformations that can be applied during assembly.
          An <i>Assembly</i> may identify any number of transformations.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p id="p_v2j_cgk_54b">For detailed information about the DocBook <i>Assembly</i> document type,
      see <xref href="http://tdg.docbook.org/tdg/5.2/ch06.html" format="html" scope="external">The
        Definitive Guide - DocBook Assemblies</xref>.</p>
    <section id="file_definition">
      <title>File Definition</title>
      <p id="p_w2j_cgk_54b">A file is considered to be an <i>Assembly</i> when the root name is
          <codeph>assembly</codeph>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="document_templates">
      <title>Default Document Templates</title>
      <p id="p_x2j_cgk_54b">A default <uicontrol>Assembly</uicontrol> document template is available when creating
          <xref href="new-dialog-sa.dita#new-dialog-sa" product="author developer editor">new
          documents from templates</xref><xref
          href="creating-from-templates.dita#creating-from-templates"
          product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">new documents from templates</xref>
        and it can be found in: <menucascade>
          <uicontrol>Framework Templates</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>DocBook 5</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>DocBook 5.1</uicontrol>
        </menucascade>.</p>
      <p id="p_y2j_cgk_54b">The default template for DocBook Assembly documents is located in the <filepath><term
            conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
          />/frameworks/docbook/templates/Docbook5.1</filepath> folder. </p>
    </section>
    <section id="default_schema">
      <title>Default Schema for Validation and Content Completion</title>
      <p id="p_z2j_cgk_54b">The default schema that is used if one is not detected is
          <filepath>docbookxi.rng</filepath> and it is stored in <filepath><term
            conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
          />/frameworks/docbook/5.1/rng/</filepath>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="transformation_scenarios">
      <title>Transformation Scenarios</title>
      <p id="p_afj_cgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> includes a built-in transformation scenario that can be applied on
        an <i>Assembly</i> file to generate an <i>assembled</i> (merged) DocBook file. The scenario
        is called <uicontrol>DocBook Assembly</uicontrol> and is found in the <uicontrol>DocBook
          5</uicontrol> section in the <xref
          href="configure-transformation-dialog.dita#configure-transformation-dialog"
            ><uicontrol>Configure Transformation Scenario(s)</uicontrol> dialog box</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="resources">
      <title>Resources</title>
      <p id="p_bfj_cgk_54b">
        <ul id="ul_cfj_cgk_54b">
          <li id="li_dfj_cgk_54b"><xref href="http://tdg.docbook.org/tdg/5.2/ch06.html"
              format="html" scope="external">The Definitive Guide - DocBook Assemblies</xref></li>
          <li id="li_qfj_cgk_54b"><xref href="https://docbook.org/specs/"
              format="html" scope="external">DocBook Specifications</xref></li>
          <li id="li_ffj_cgk_54b">Sample files: <filepath><term conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
              />/samples/docbook/v5/assembly/</filepath></li>
        </ul>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
