<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="automated-tests">
  <title>Creating and Running Automated Tests</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Oxygen SDK<indexterm>Automated tests</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Plugins<indexterm>Automated tests</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Automated tests</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_yy2_dgk_54b">If you have developed complex custom <xref keyref="glossentry_plugin"
        ><term>plugins</term></xref> or <xref keyref="glossentry_framework"
        ><term>frameworks</term></xref> (document types), the best way to test your implementation
      and ensure that further changes will not interfere with the current behavior is to make
      automated tests for your customization.</p>
    <p id="p_zy2_dgk_54b">An <ph><ph keyref="product"/></ph> standalone installation includes a main
        <filepath>oxygen.jar</filepath> library located in the <filepath><term
          conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"/></filepath>. That <xref
        keyref="glossentry_jar"><term>JAR</term></xref> library contains a base class for testing
      developer customizations named:
        <codeph>ro.sync.exml.workspace.api.PluginWorkspaceTCBase</codeph>.</p>
    <p id="p_az2_dgk_54b">To develop <i>JUnit</i> tests for your customizations using the Eclipse workbench, follow
      these steps:</p>
    <ol id="ol_g45_pdc_mh">
      <li id="li_bz2_dgk_54b">Create a new Eclipse Java project and copy the entire contents of the
            <filepath><term conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"/></filepath> folder to
        the new project under the <filepath>oxygen</filepath> sub-directory.</li>
      <li id="li_cz2_dgk_54b">Add all <term>JAR</term> libraries present in the
          <filepath>./oxygen/lib</filepath> directory to the <uicontrol>Java Build
          Path</uicontrol>-><uicontrol>Libraries</uicontrol> tab. Make sure that the main
          <term>JAR</term> library <filepath>oxygen.jar</filepath> or
          <filepath>oxygenAuthor.jar</filepath> is the first one in the Java classpath by moving it
        up in the <uicontrol>Order and Export</uicontrol> tab.</li>
      <li id="li_dz2_dgk_54b">Click <uicontrol>Add Library</uicontrol> and add the <xref
          href="https://github.com/junit-team/junit/wiki/Download-and-Install" format="html"
          scope="external"><i>JUnit</i></xref> and <xref
          href="https://sourceforge.net/projects/jfcunit/" format="html" scope="external"
            ><i>JFCUnit</i></xref> libraries.</li>
      <li id="li_ez2_dgk_54b">Create a new Java class that extends
          <codeph>ro.sync.exml.workspace.api.PluginWorkspaceTCBase</codeph>.</li>
      <li id="li_fz2_dgk_54b">Pass the following parameters to the constructor of the super class: <ul
          id="ul_dnz_3fc_mh">
          <li id="li_gz2_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>File installationFolder</uicontrol> - The file path to
            the main application installation directory. If not specified, it defaults to the folder
            where the test is started. According to step 1, it should be
            <filepath>oxygen</filepath>.</li>
          <li id="li_hz2_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>File frameworksFolder</uicontrol> - The file path to
            the <filepath>frameworks</filepath> directory. It can point to a custom
              <term>framework</term> directory where it resides. According to step 1, it should be
              <filepath>oxygen/frameworks</filepath>.</li>
          <li id="li_iz2_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>File pluginsFolder</uicontrol> - The file path to the
              <filepath>plugins</filepath> directory. It can point to a custom <term>plugin</term>
            directory where it resides. According to step 1, it should be
              <filepath>oxygen/plugins</filepath>.</li>
          <li id="li_jz2_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>File optionsFolder</uicontrol> - The folder that
            contains the application options. If not specified, the application will auto-detect the
            location based on the started product ID.</li>
          <li id="li_kz2_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>String licenseKey</uicontrol> - The license key used to
            license the test class.</li>
          <li id="li_lz2_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>int productID</uicontrol> - The ID of the product and
            should be one of the following:
              <codeph>PluginWorkspaceTCBase.XML_AUTHOR_PRODUCT</codeph>,
              <codeph>PluginWorkspaceTCBase.XML_EDITOR_PRODUCT</codeph>, or
              <codeph>PluginWorkspaceTCBase.XML_DEVELOPER_PRODUCT</codeph>.</li>
        </ul></li>
      <li id="li_mz2_dgk_54b">Create test methods that use the API in the base class to open XML files and perform
        various actions on them.<ph product="developer editor"> Your test class could look something
          like
        this:</ph><codeblock outputclass="language-java" product="developer editor" id="codeblock_nz2_dgk_54b">public class MyTestClass extends PluginWorkspaceTCBase {
	
/**
 * Constructor.
 */
public MyTestClass() throws Exception {
	super(null, new File("frameworks"), new File("plugins"), null, 
"------START-LICENSE-KEY------\n" + 
	"\n" + 
	"Registration_Name=Developer\n" + 
	"\n" + 
	"Company=\n" + 
	"\n" + 
	"Category=Enterprise\n" + 
	"\n" + 
	"Component=XML-Editor, XSLT-Debugger, Saxon-SA\n" + 
	"\n" + 
	"Version=14\n" + 
	"\n" + 
	"Number_of_Licenses=1\n" + 
	"\n" + 
	"Date=09-04-2012\n" + 
	"\n" + 
	"Trial=31\n" + 
	"\n" + 
	"SGN=MCwCFGNoEGJSeiC3XCYIyalvjzHhGhhqAhRNRDpEu8RIWb8icCJO7HqfVP4++A\\=\\=\n" + 
	"\n" + 
"-------END-LICENSE-KEY-------", 
 PluginWorkspaceTCBase.XML_AUTHOR_PRODUCT);
	}
	
 /**
   * &lt;p>&lt;b>Description:&lt;/b> TC for opening a file and using a bold operation&lt;/p>
   * &lt;p>&lt;b>Bug ID:&lt;/b> EXM-20417&lt;/p>
   *
   * @author radu_coravu
   *
   * @throws Exception
   */
public void testOpenFileAndBoldEXM_20417() throws Exception {
      WSEditor ed = open(new File
("D:/projects/eXml/test/authorExtensions/dita/sampleSmall.xml").toURL());
	    //Move caret
	    moveCaretRelativeTo("Context", 1, false);
	    
	    //Insert &lt;b>
	    invokeAuthorExtensionActionForID("bold");
	    assertEquals("&lt;?xml version=\"1.0\" encoding=\"utf-8\"?>\n" + 
	    		"&lt;!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC \"-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN\"
 \"task.dtd\">\n" + 
	    		"&lt;task id=\"taskId\">\n" + 
	    		"    &lt;title>Task &lt;b>title&lt;/b>&lt;/title>\n" + 
	    		"    &lt;prolog/>\n" + 
	    		"    &lt;taskbody>\n" + 
	    		"        &lt;context>\n" + 
	    		"            &lt;p>Context for the current task&lt;/p>\n" + 
	    		"        &lt;/context>\n" + 
	    		"        &lt;steps>\n" + 
	    		"            &lt;step>\n" + 
	    		"                &lt;cmd>Task step.&lt;/cmd>\n" + 
	    		"            &lt;/step>\n" + 
	    		"        &lt;/steps>\n" + 
	    		"    &lt;/taskbody>\n" + 
	    		"&lt;/task>\n" + 
	    		"", getCurrentEditorXMLContent());
	  }
}</codeblock></li>
    </ol>
  </body>
</topic>
