<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="autocorrect-dictionaries-preferences">
  <title>AutoCorrect Dictionaries Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Preferences<indexterm>Editor<indexterm>Edit
                    Modes<indexterm>Author<indexterm>AutoCorrect<indexterm>AutoCorrect
                    Dictionaries</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        </indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>To set the Dictionaries preferences for the <xref href="autocorrect.dita#autocorrect"
          ><term>AutoCorrect</term> feature</xref>, <ph
        conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Edit Modes</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>AutoCorrect</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Dictionaries</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>. This page allows you to specify the location of the dictionaries that <ph
        keyref="product"/> uses for the <term>AutoCorrect</term> feature and the location for saving
      user-defined replacements.</p>
    <p>The following options are available in this preferences page:<dl>
        <dlentry id="auto-dicts-default">
          <dt><uicontrol>Dictionaries default folder</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Displays the default location where the dictionaries that <ph keyref="product"/> uses
            for the <term>AutoCorrect</term> feature are stored.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="auto-dicts-additional">
          <dt><uicontrol>Include dictionaries from</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Selecting this option allows you to specify a location where you have stored
              <term>AutoCorrect</term> dictionaries that you want to include, along with the default
            ones. <note type="important" id="dictionary-note">Consider the following notes in
              regards to this option:<ul>
                <li>The <term>AutoCorrect</term> mechanism takes into account
                    <term>AutoCorrect</term> dictionaries collected both from the default and custom
                  locations and multiple dictionaries from the same language are merged (for
                  example, <filepath>en_UK.dat</filepath> from the default location is merged with
                    <filepath>en_US.dat</filepath> from a custom location).</li>
                <li>If you have a generic <term>AutoCorrect</term> dictionary file (one that just
                  has a two letter language code for its file name, such as
                    <filepath>en.dat</filepath>) saved in either the default or custom location, the
                  other more specific dictionaries (for example, <filepath>en_UK.dat</filepath> and
                    <filepath>en_US.dat</filepath>) will not be merged and the existing generic
                  dictionary will simply be used instead.</li>
                <li>If the additional location contains a file with the same name as one from the
                  default location, the file in the additional location takes precedence over the
                  file from the default location.</li>
              </ul></note></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>How to add more dictionaries</uicontrol> link</dt>
          <dd>Use this link to open a topic in the <ph keyref="product"/> User Guide that explains
            how to <xref
              href="add-dictionaries-for-autocorrect.dita#add-dictionaries-for-autocorrect"
              >add dictionaries for the <term>AutoCorrect</term> feature</xref>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol id="user-defined">Save user-defined replacements in the following
              location</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the target where added, edited, or deleted replacements are saved. By
            default, the target is the application preferences folder, but you can also choose a
            custom location.<note type="tip" product="author editor">To save changes to <xref
                href="autocorrect-preferences-page.dita#autocorrect-preferences-page/replacements-section"
                >the Replacement table (in the <uicontrol>AutoCorrect</uicontrol> preferences
                page)</xref> at <xref keyref="glossentry_project-options">project level</xref>,
              select a custom location for the <uicontrol>User-defined replacements</uicontrol> and
              select <xref keyref="glossentry_project-options"><uicontrol>Project
                  Options</uicontrol></xref> at the bottom of the page.</note></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="add-dictionaries-for-autocorrect.dita#add-dictionaries-for-autocorrect"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
