<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="autocorrect-preferences-page">
  <title>AutoCorrect Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Preferences<indexterm>AutoCorrect</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>AutoCorrect preferences</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> includes an option to automatically correct misspelled words as you
      type in <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode. To enable and configure this <xref
        href="autocorrect.dita#autocorrect"><term>AutoCorrect</term> feature</xref>, <ph
        conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Edit Modes</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>AutoCorrect</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>.</p>
    <p>The following options are available:<dl>
        <dlentry id="enable-autocorrect">
          <dt><uicontrol>Enable AutoCorrect</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>When selected (default state), while editing in <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode, if
            you type anything that is listed in the <uicontrol>Replace</uicontrol> column of the
            Replacements table displayed in this preferences page, <ph keyref="product"/> will
            automatically replace it with the value listed in the <uicontrol>With</uicontrol>
            column.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="use-spell-check">
          <dt><uicontrol>Use additional suggestions from the spell checker</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected, in addition to anything listed in the Replacements table displayed in
            this preferences page, <ph keyref="product"/> will also use suggestions from the Spell
            Checker to automatically correct misspelled words. Suggestions from the Spell Checker
            will only be used if the misspelled word is not found in the Replacements
              table.<note>The <term>AutoCorrect</term> feature shares the same options configured in
              the <xref
                href="preferences-editor-spell-check.dita#preferences-editor-spell-check/lang-options-section"
                  ><uicontrol>Language options</uicontrol></xref> and <xref
                href="preferences-editor-spell-check.dita#preferences-editor-spell-check/ignore-elements-section"
                  ><uicontrol>Ignore elements</uicontrol></xref> sections in the <uicontrol>Spell
                Check</uicontrol> preferences page.</note></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Spell Check options</uicontrol> link</dt>
          <dd>Use this link to navigate to the <xref
              href="preferences-editor-spell-check.dita#preferences-editor-spell-check">Spell Check
              Preferences page</xref>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="replacements-section">
          <dt>Replacements Table section</dt>
          <dd>The <term>AutoCorrect</term> feature uses the Replacements table to automatically
            replace anything that is listed in the <uicontrol>Replace</uicontrol> column with the
            value listed in the <uicontrol>With</uicontrol> column for each language.<p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Replacements for language</uicontrol> drop-down menu</dt>
                  <dd>You can specify the language for the Replacements table, and for each
                    language, you can configure the items listed in the table. The language selected
                    in this page is not the language that will be used by the
                      <term>AutoCorrect</term> feature. It is simply the language for the
                    Replacements table.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Replacements Table</dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p>You can double-click on cells in either column to edit the listed items. Use
                      the <uicontrol>Add</uicontrol> button to insert new items and the
                        <uicontrol>Remove</uicontrol> button to delete rows from the table. </p>
                    <note>Any changes, additions, or deletions you make to this table are saved to a
                      path that is specified in the <xref
                        href="autocorrect-dictionaries-preferences.dita#autocorrect-dictionaries-preferences/user-defined"
                          ><uicontrol>AutoCorrect Dictionaries</uicontrol> preferences
                      page</xref>.</note>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="smart-quotes">
          <dt><uicontrol>Smart quotes</uicontrol> section</dt>
          <dd>You can also choose to automatically convert double and single quotes to a quotation
            characters of your choice by using the following options in the <uicontrol>Smart
              quotes</uicontrol> section:<ul id="ul_g41_hpy_qr">
              <li><uicontrol>Replace "Single quotes"</uicontrol> - Replaces single quotes with the
                quotation symbols you select with the <uicontrol>Start quote</uicontrol> and
                  <uicontrol>End quote</uicontrol> buttons.</li>
              <li><uicontrol>Replace "Double quotes"</uicontrol> - Replaces double quotes with the
                quotation symbols you select with the <uicontrol>Start quote</uicontrol> and
                  <uicontrol>End quote</uicontrol> buttons.</li>
            </ul><note>These <uicontrol>Smart quotes</uicontrol> options are ignored for content
              inside any element listed in the <xref
                href="preferences-editor-spell-check.dita#preferences-editor-spell-check/ignore-elements-section"
                  ><uicontrol>Ignore elements</uicontrol> section of the <uicontrol>Spell Check
                  preferences page</uicontrol></xref>.</note></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="author editor">
          <dt><xref keyref="glossentry_global-options"><uicontrol>Global
            Options</uicontrol></xref></dt>
          <dd>If this option is selected, the options are stored on your local computer, in a folder
            that is not accessible to other users.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="author editor">
          <dt><xref keyref="glossentry_project-options"><uicontrol>Project
              Options</uicontrol></xref></dt>
          <dd>If this option is selected, the options are stored in the project file and can be
            shared with other users. Selecting <xref keyref="glossentry_project-options"
                ><uicontrol>Project Options</uicontrol></xref> will only save your selections in
              <xref href="#autocorrect-preferences-page/enable-autocorrect" format="dita"
                ><uicontrol>Enable AutoCorrect</uicontrol></xref>, <xref
              href="#autocorrect-preferences-page/use-spell-check" format="dita"><uicontrol>Use
                additional suggestions from the spell checker</uicontrol></xref>, and the options in
            the <xref href="#autocorrect-preferences-page/smart-quotes" format="dita"
                ><uicontrol>Smart quotes</uicontrol> section</xref>. Changes to the Replacements
            table are not saved in this page. To save changes to the Replacements table at project
            level you need to specify a custom location in <xref
              href="autocorrect-dictionaries-preferences.dita#autocorrect-dictionaries-preferences/user-defined"
              >the <uicontrol>User-defined replacements</uicontrol> section of the
                <uicontrol>AutoCorrect Dictionaries</uicontrol> preferences page</xref> and select
              <uicontrol>Project Options</uicontrol> from that preferences page instead.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Restore Defaults</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Restores the options in this preferences page to their default values and <b>also
              deletes any changes you have made to the <xref
                href="#autocorrect-preferences-page/replacements-section" format="dita">Replacements
                table</xref></b>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </body>
</topic>
