<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="autocorrect">
  <title>AutoCorrect Misspelled Words</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>AutoCorrect <indexterm>automatically correct misspelled words</indexterm>
          <indexterm>Accessibility</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> includes an <term>AutoCorrect</term> feature to automatically correct
      misspelled words, as well as to insert certain symbols or other text, as you type in
        <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode. <ph keyref="product"/> includes a default list of
      commonly misspelled words and symbols, but you can modify the list to suit your needs. You can
      also choose to have the <term>AutoCorrect</term> feature use suggestions from the main spell
      checker. The suggestions will only be used if the misspelled words are not found in the
      Replacements table.</p>
    <p>When enabled, the <term>AutoCorrect</term> feature can be used to do the following:<ul
        id="ul_qhy_ywy_qr">
        <li>Automatically correct misspelled words while you edit in <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol>
          mode.</li>
        <li>Easily insert symbols. For example, if you want to insert a
            <systemoutput>®</systemoutput> character, you would type
          <userinput>(R)</userinput>.</li>
        <li>Quickly insert text fragments.  </li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>To enable and configure this feature, <ph
        conkeyref="reusable_menus/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Edit Modes</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>AutoCorrect</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>.</p>
    <p>The <term>AutoCorrect</term> feature results in the following types of substitutions in
      regards to case-sensitivity:<ul id="ul_kkn_4j1_sr">
        <li>Words with all lower-case characters will be replaced with lower-case substitutions (for
          example, "abotu" is replaced with "about").</li>
        <li>Words with irregular-case characters will be replaced with lower-case substitutions
          ("ABotU" is replaced with "about").</li>
        <li>Words with all upper-case characters will be replaced with upper-case substitutions
          ("ABOTU" is replaced with "ABOUT").</li>
        <li>Words starting with an upper-case character will be replaced with substitutions having
          the same pattern ("Abotu" is replaced with "About").</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>The actual operation of replacing of a word is triggered by a space, dash, or punctuation
      mark (<userinput>,</userinput>
      <userinput>.</userinput>
      <userinput>;</userinput>
      <userinput>:</userinput>
      <userinput>?</userinput>
      <userinput>!</userinput>).</p>
    <p>The <term>AutoCorrect</term> feature also uses the list of <xref
        href="preferences-editor-spell-check.dita#preferences-editor-spell-check/ignore-elements-section"
          ><uicontrol>ignored elements from the Spell Check preferences page</uicontrol></xref>. All
      elements (along with their descendant elements) included in this list will be ignored by the
        <term>AutoCorrect</term> engine.</p>
    <p> </p>
  </body>
</topic>
