<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="batch-converter-addon">
  <title>Batch Documents Converter Add-on</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Add-ons<indexterm>Batch converter</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Batch converter add-on</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_wsg_dgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> offers an add-on that contributes actions in the following
      submenus:</p>
    <p id="p_xsg_dgk_54b">
      <ul id="ul_exj_lvq_j4b">
        <li id="li_ysg_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>Batch Documents Converter</uicontrol> submenu located in the
            <uicontrol>Tools</uicontrol> menu and the contextual menu of resources in the
            <uicontrol>Project</uicontrol> view. </li>
        <li id="li_zsg_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>Additional conversions</uicontrol> submenu located in <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>File</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Import/Convert</uicontrol>
          </menucascade>.</li>
        <li id="li_atg_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>Import</uicontrol> submenu located in the <uicontrol>Append
          child</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Insert Before</uicontrol>, and <uicontrol>Insert
            After</uicontrol> submenus from the contextual menu of the <uicontrol>DITA Maps
            Manager</uicontrol> view.</li>
      </ul>
    </p>
    <p id="p_btg_dgk_54b">The first time you invoke any of these actions, <ph keyref="product"/>
      will ask you if you want to install it and offer a wizard to help with the installation
      process. Once installed, you need to restart <ph keyref="product"/> and those same actions
      will then contain the list of available conversions. Selecting an action from the submenu will
      open a dialog box where you can configure the options for the corresponding conversion. You
      can batch convert between the following formats:<ul id="ul_vjp_pmr_flb">
        <li id="li_ctg_dgk_54b">HTML to XHTML</li>
        <li id="li_dtg_dgk_54b">HTML to DITA</li>
        <li id="li_ktg_dgk_54b">HTML to DocBook4</li>
        <li id="li_ltg_dgk_54b">HTML to DocBook5</li>
        <li id="li_etg_dgk_54b">Markdown to XHTML</li>
        <li id="li_ftg_dgk_54b">Markdown to DITA</li>
        <li id="li_mtg_dgk_54b">Markdown to DocBook4</li>
        <li id="li_ntg_dgk_54b">Markdown to DocBook5</li>
        <li id="li_ptg_dgk_54b">Word (<filepath>.doc</filepath> or <filepath>.docx</filepath>) to
          XHTML</li>
        <li id="li_qtg_dgk_54b">Word (<filepath>.doc</filepath> or <filepath>.docx</filepath>) to
          DITA</li>
        <li id="li_rtg_dgk_54b">Word (<filepath>.doc</filepath> or <filepath>.docx</filepath>) to
          DocBook4</li>
        <li id="li_stg_dgk_54b">Word (<filepath>.doc</filepath> or <filepath>.docx</filepath>) to
          DocBook5</li>
        <li id="li_otg_dgk_54b">Excel to DITA</li>
        <li>Confluence to DITA (by converting the <filepath>input.html</filepath> file generated
          from the Confluence to HTML export process)</li>
        <li>DocBook to DITA</li>
        <li id="li_gtg_dgk_54b">JSON to XML</li>
        <li id="li_htg_dgk_54b">XML to JSON</li>
        <li id="li_itg_dgk_54b">JSON to YAML</li>
        <li id="li_jtg_dgk_54b">YAML to JSON</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p id="p_ttg_dgk_54b">When actions are invoked from the contextual menu of the <uicontrol>DITA Maps
        Manager</uicontrol> view, the resulting documents from the conversion are automatically
      inserted in the map as follows:</p>
    <ul id="ul_qpf_5wq_j4b">
      <li id="li_utg_dgk_54b">Actions from <uicontrol>Append child</uicontrol> inserts map nodes as children of the
        currently selected node.</li>
      <li id="li_vtg_dgk_54b">Actions from <uicontrol>Insert Before</uicontrol> inserts map nodes as siblings of the
        currently selected node, above the current node in the map.</li>
      <li id="li_wtg_dgk_54b">Actions from <uicontrol>Insert After</uicontrol> inserts map nodes as siblings of the
        currently selected node, below the current node in the map.</li>
    </ul>
    <section id="section_vkr_t5c_vpb">
      <title>Manual Installation</title>
      <p id="p_wkr_t5c_vpb">To manually install the <uicontrol>Batch Documents Converter</uicontrol>
        add-on:</p>
      <ol id="ol_ztg_dgk_54b">
        <li id="li_a5g_dgk_54b">Go to <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Install new add-ons</uicontrol>
          </menucascade> to open an add-on selection dialog box. </li>
        <li id="li_b5g_dgk_54b">Enter or paste
            <uicontrol>https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Addons/default/updateSite.xml</uicontrol>
          in the <uicontrol>Show add-ons from</uicontrol> field or select it from the drop-down
          menu.</li>
        <li id="li_c5g_dgk_54b">Select the <uicontrol>Batch Documents Converter</uicontrol> add-on
          and click <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol>. </li>
        <li id="li_d5g_dgk_54b">Read the end-user license agreement. Then select the <uicontrol>I
            accept all terms of the end-user license agreement</uicontrol> option and click
            <uicontrol>Finish</uicontrol>.</li>
        <li id="li_e5g_dgk_54b">Restart the application.</li>
      </ol>
      <p id="p_f5g_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>Result:</uicontrol> A <uicontrol>Batch Documents
          Converter</uicontrol> submenu will now be available in the <uicontrol>Tools</uicontrol>
        menu and in the contextual menu. This submenu will contain a list of the various types of
        available conversions. Selecting one of the types of conversions will open a dialog box
        where you can configure options for the conversion.</p>
      <p id="p_yj3_gvc_vpb">The add-on can also be installed using the following alternative
        installation procedure:</p>
      <ol id="ol_zj3_gvc_vpb">
        <li id="li_ak3_gvc_vpb">Go to the <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/oxygen-resources-converter/releases/latest" format="html" scope="external">Releases page</xref> and download the
            <filepath>oxygen-batch-converter-{version}-plugin.jar</filepath> file.</li>
        <li id="li_bk3_gvc_vpb">Unzip it inside <filepath>{oXygenInstallDir}/plugins</filepath>.
          Make sure you don't create any intermediate folders. After unzipping the archive, the file
          system should look like this:
            <filepath>{oXygenInstallDir}/plugins/oxygen-batch-converter-x.y.z</filepath>, and inside
          this folder, there should be a <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath> file.</li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    <section id="section_ow5_vw4_3rb">
      <title>Configuration</title>
      <p>Options for configuring the
        conversions can be found in the preferences page of the add-on (<menucascade>
          <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Plugins</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Batch Documents Converter</uicontrol>
        </menucascade>) or in the conversion dialog box.</p>
      <p>
        <dl id="dl_ayf_42j_jrb">
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Conversions from Word (Word Styles Mapping)</dt>
            <dd>
              <p>The conversions from MS Word work best if you only use the MS Word styles to
                semantically mark up your document. It is important that sections from the Word
                document are well defined using the heading styles.</p>
              <p>Use the <uicontrol>Word styles mapping</uicontrol> option from the <uicontrol>Batch
                  Documents Converter</uicontrol> preferences page to configure any of the types of
                Word conversions (Word to HTML, Word to DITA, Word to DocBook4, and Word to
                DocBook5) by setting a mapping between Word elements and styles to the corresponding
                HTML element.</p>
              <p>If the Word document contains paragraphs formatted with custom styles, they have to
                be set in the Word styles mapping configuration. Those that are not set will be
                converted into simple paragraphs. To add custom styles, you can use the default
                configuration from the table. For example, if you use a custom Word style named
                  <codeph>Document Title</codeph>, you can map this to the HTML "h1" element:</p>
              <p>
                <simpletable frame="all" relcolwidth="1* 1* 1*" id="simpletable_tdy_cbp_3rb">
                  <sthead>
                    <stentry>Word element</stentry>
                    <stentry>Word style</stentry>
                    <stentry>HTML elements</stentry>
                  </sthead>
                  <strow>
                    <stentry>p</stentry>
                    <stentry>Document Title</stentry>
                    <stentry>h1:fresh</stentry>
                  </strow>
                </simpletable>
              </p>
              <p>The resulting 'h1' element will be transformed into the corresponding element when
                converting to DITA, DocBook 4, and DocBook 5.</p>
              <p>The <uicontrol>Word styles mapping</uicontrol> table contains the following
                columns:</p>
              <p>
                <dl id="dl_t15_tdj_jrb">
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>Word element</dt>
                    <dd>
                      <p>This column allows one of the following Word elements: </p>
                      <ul id="ol_wqt_qcp_3rb">
                        <li><uicontrol>p</uicontrol> - Word paragraph</li>
                        <li><uicontrol>r</uicontrol> - Word run</li>
                        <li><uicontrol>b</uicontrol> - bold text</li>
                        <li><uicontrol>i</uicontrol> - italicized text</li>
                        <li><uicontrol>u</uicontrol> - underlined text</li>
                        <li><uicontrol>strike</uicontrol> - strikethrough text</li>
                        <li><uicontrol>table</uicontrol> - table</li>
                        <li><uicontrol>p:unorderd-list(x)</uicontrol> - unordered list (where 'x' is
                          the nesting level of the list)</li>
                        <li><uicontrol>p:orderd-list(x)</uicontrol> - ordered list (where 'x' is the
                          nesting level of the list)</li>
                      </ul>
                    </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>Word style</dt>
                    <dd><p>This column can be used to map a paragraph, run, or table with a specific
                        style (referenced by name).</p>Styles can also be referenced by style ID.
                      This is the ID used internally in the <codeph>.docx</codeph> file. To map a
                      paragraph or run with a specific style ID, append a dot followed by the style
                      ID in the <uicontrol>Word element</uicontrol> column (for example:
                        <codeph>p.Heading1</codeph>).</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>HTML elements</dt>
                    <dd>
                      <p>This column can be used to map the resulting HTML elements. It allows a
                        single element or multiple nested elements.</p>
                      <p>The nested elements can be declared by using the '>' character (for
                        example: <codeph>ul > li</codeph>).</p>
                      <p>The <codeph>class</codeph> attribute can be specified on the resulting HTML
                        elements by appending a dot followed by the class value, after the element
                        (for example: <codeph>p.myClass</codeph>).</p>
                      <p>When converting Word to DITA, these <codeph>class</codeph> attributes are
                        automatically converted to <codeph>outputclass</codeph> attributes. This may
                        be useful if you want to apply extra processing on the resulting DITA
                        document using a custom XLS stylesheet.</p>
                      <p>The <codeph>:fresh</codeph> syntax can be used to create new elements. If
                        it is not used, the converter will try to reuse the element and close it
                        only when it is necessary.</p>
                      <p>For example, if the following configuration is set: </p>
                      <p>
                        <simpletable frame="all" relcolwidth="1* 1* 1*" id="simpletable_pws_tmp_3rb">
                          <strow>
                            <stentry>p</stentry>
                            <stentry>Heading 1</stentry>
                            <stentry>h1</stentry>
                          </strow>
                        </simpletable>
                      </p>
                      <p>When the converter finds consecutive Word paragraphs with the style name
                          <codeph>Heading 1</codeph>, these will be converted into a single
                          <codeph>h1</codeph>element that contains the text appended from all of the
                        Word paragraphs.</p>
                      <p>If <codeph>h1:fresh</codeph> is set in the last column, the converter will
                        create separate <codeph>h1</codeph> elements.</p>
                      <p>To ignore elements, the '!' character can be added in the <uicontrol>HTML
                          elements</uicontrol> column.</p>
                    </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                </dl>
              </p>
              <p>The <uicontrol>Export</uicontrol> button can be used to export the word styles
                configuration to an XML file. This exported file can be used to configure the MS
                Word <xref href="dynamically_convert_word_excel_html_markdown_to_dita.dita"
                  format="dita" product="author editor">Dynamic Conversion</xref><ph
                  product="developer">dynamic conversion</ph> from <ph keyref="product"/> by copying
                the file in the DITA-OT plugin directory:
                  <codeph>[OXYGEN_INSTALL_DIR]/frameworks/dita/DITA-OT3.x/plugins/com.oxygenxml.dynamic.resources.converter</codeph>.</p>
              <p>The <uicontrol>Import</uicontrol> button allows you to import the word styles
                configuration from an exported XML file.</p>
              <p>
                <note id="note_ubx_p2j_jrb">The <uicontrol>Word styles mapping</uicontrol>
                  configuration is applied only for the newer version of MS Word files formatted in
                  the Microsoft Office Open XML (DOCX) format.</note>
              </p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Maximum Heading Level for Creating Topics</dt>
            <dd>The <uicontrol>Maximum heading level for creating topics</uicontrol> option from the
                <uicontrol>Batch Documents Converter</uicontrol> preferences page allows you to set
              a maximum heading level that the converter will process as DITA topics. The headings
              with a higher level will be converted to <codeph>section</codeph> elements. <p>When
                the output is a DITA topic, this option sets the maximum heading level that will be
                converted as a nested topic in the document.</p><p>When the output is a DITA map,
                this option sets the maximum heading level that will be extracted as a DITA topic
                file and referenced in the DITA map hierarchy.</p></dd>
            <dd>
              <note id="note_i12_dfk_lrb">This option only applies to the HTML to DITA and Word to
                DITA conversions.</note>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Word to DITA</dt>
            <dd>
              <p>The <uicontrol>Create DITA maps from Word documents containing multiple
                  headings</uicontrol> option from the conversion dialog box allows you to decide
                whether the output will be a DITA map or a DITA topic. When this option is selected,
                the sections from your Word document marked by titles or headings will be separated
                into individual DITA topics and referenced in a DITA map. If the word document does
                not contain multiple sections, the output will be a single topic. When this option
                is not selected, the output will be a topic with nested topics and sections
                according to the number of titles and headings from the Word document.</p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Markdown to DITA</dt>
            <dd>
              <p>The <uicontrol>Create DITA maps from Markdown documents containing multiple
                  headings</uicontrol> option from the conversion dialog box allows you to decide
                whether the output will be a DITA map or a DITA topic. When this option is selected,
                all headings from your Markdown document will be separated into individual DITA
                topics and referenced in a DITA map. If the Markdown document does not contain
                multiple headings, the output will be a single topic. When this option is not
                selected, the output will be a topic with nested topics or sections according to the
                number of headings from the document.</p>
              <p>The <uicontrol>Create short description elements</uicontrol> option from the
                conversion dialog box allows you to decide whether or not the
                  <codeph>shortdesc</codeph> elements are created in the output DITA document. When
                this option is selected, the first paragraph before the headings from the Markdown
                document will be converted into DITA short description elements. When this option is
                not selected, the output will not contain the short description element.</p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>HTML to DITA</dt>
            <dd>
              <p>The <uicontrol>Create DITA maps from HTML documents containing multiple
                  headings</uicontrol> option from the conversion dialog box allows you to decide
                whether the output will be a DITA map or a DITA topic. When this option is selected,
                the headings from your HTML document will be separated into individual DITA topics
                and referenced in a DITA map. If the HTML document does not contain multiple
                sections, the output will be a single topic. When this option is not selected, the
                output will be a topic with nested topics or sections according to the number of
                headings from the document.</p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>DocBook to DITA</dt>
            <dd>The <uicontrol>Create DITA maps from DocBook documents containing multiple
                sections</uicontrol> option from the conversion dialog box allows you to decide
              whether the output will be a DITA map or a DITA topic. When this option is selected,
              the sections from your DocBook document will be separated into individual DITA topics
              and referenced in a DITA map. When this option is not selected, the output will be a
              topic with nested topics.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_x2n_vhh_vrb">
      <title>Resources</title>
      <p id="p_orm_dgk_54b">For more information about the Batch Converter add-on, as well as
        details regarding other popular add-ons that extend the functionality of <ph
          keyref="product"/>, watch the following webinars/presentations:<ul id="ul_kgv_tx1_jsb">
          <li id="li_kld_zx1_jsb"><xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/events/2021/webinar_working_with_dita_in_oxygen_migrating_to_dita_and_refactoring.html"
              format="html" scope="external">Webinar: Working with DITA in Oxygen - Migrating to
              DITA and Refactoring </xref></li>
          <li id="li_gfb_xx1_jsb"><xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/events/2020/webinar_extending_the_functionality_of_Oxygen_using_add_ons.html"
              format="html" scope="external">Webinar: Extending the Functionality of Oxygen Using
              Add-ons</xref></li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
