<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="batch-editing-actions-on-highlights">
  <title>Batch Editing Actions on Highlights</title>
  <body>
    <p>Working with XML documents implies frequent changes to structure and content. You are often
      faced with a situation where you need to make a slight change in hundreds of places in the
      same document. <ph keyref="product"/> introduced a new feature, <uicontrol>Manage Highlighted
        Content</uicontrol>, designed to help you achieve that.</p>
    <p>When you are in <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode and you perform a search operation or apply
      an XPath that highlights more than one result, you can select the <uicontrol>Manage
        Highlighted Content</uicontrol> action from the contextual menu of any highlight in the
      document. In the sub-menu, the following options are available:<ul>
        <li><uicontrol>Modify All</uicontrol> - use this option to modify in-place all the
          occurrences of the selected content. When you use this option, a thin rectangle replaces
          the highlights and lets you start editing;<note>In case you select a very large number of
            highlights that you want to modify using this feature, when you select this option a
            dialog informs you that you may experience performance issues. You have the option to
            either use the <uicontrol>Find/Replace</uicontrol> dialog box, or continue the
            operation.</note></li>
        <li><uicontrol>Surround All</uicontrol> - use this option to surround the content with a
          specific tag. This option opens the <uicontrol>Tag</uicontrol> dialog box. The
            <uicontrol>Specify the tag</uicontrol> drop-down presents all the available elements
          that you can choose from.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Remove All</uicontrol> - removes all the highlighted content.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>In case you right click a different part of the document than a highlight, you only have the
      option to select <uicontrol>Modify All Matches</uicontrol>.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
