<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="bidi-support">
  <title>Special Character Support in Author Mode</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Author editing mode<indexterm>Bidirectional text</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Bidirectional text in Author mode</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Author editing mode<indexterm>Special characters</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Special characters in Author mode</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_p5y_bgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> offers support for bidirectional text, such as
      Arabic or Hebrew languages that require right-to-left scripts, certain Asian languages (such
      as <term>Devanagari</term>, <term>Bengali</term>, <term>Gurmukhi</term>,
      <term>Gujarati</term>, <term>Oriya</term>, <term>Tamil</term>, <term>Telugu</term>,
        <term>Kannada</term>, <term>Malayalam</term>, <term>Sinhala</term>, <term>Thai</term>,
        <term>Khmer</term>), or other special characters (such as combining characters). To achieve
      this, <ph keyref="product"/> uses the <xref href="http://www.unicode.org/reports/tr9/"
        format="html" scope="external">Unicode Bidirectional Algorithm</xref>, as specified by the
      Unicode Consortium. The text arrangement is similar to what you get in a modern HTML browser.
      The final text layout is rendered according to the directional CSS properties matching the XML
      elements and the Unicode directional formatting codes.</p>
    <p id="p_q5y_bgk_54b">By default, when navigating bidirectional text with the arrow keys in
        <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode, pressing the right arrow key moves the cursor in the
      writing direction and the left arrow moves it in the opposite direction. However, if the <xref
        href="caret-navigation.dita#caret-navigation/arrow-keys-writing-direction"><uicontrol>Arrow
          keys move the cursor in the writing direction</uicontrol> option</xref> in the
        <uicontrol>Cursor Navigation</uicontrol> preferences page is not selected, pressing the
      right arrow will simply move the cursor to the right (and the left arrow moves it to the
      left), regardless of the text direction.</p>
    <note type="tip" id="note_r5y_bgk_54b">If you experience performance issues when editing documents that contain
      bidirectional text, you could try <ph product="author editor">one of the following
        solutions</ph><ph product="authorEclipse editorEclipse">the following solution</ph>:<ul id="ul_s5y_bgk_54b">
        <li product="author editor" id="li_t5y_bgk_54b">The Eclipse plugin distribution of <ph keyref="product"/> is
          faster than the standalone version when working with bidirectional text.</li>
        <li id="li_u5y_bgk_54b">You could try changing the font. For example, you could try using
            the<term>David</term> font in Hebrew content. If it is not already installed in your
          operating system, this font is available at: <xref
            href="https://www.microsoft.com/typography/fonts/family.aspx?FID=234" format="html"
            scope="external"/>. To change the font in <ph keyref="product"/>, <ph
            conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/>, go to <menucascade
            product="author editor">
            <uicontrol>Appearance</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Fonts</uicontrol>
          </menucascade><uicontrol product="authorEclipse editorEclipse">Fonts</uicontrol>, and
          change the font using the <xref
            href="preferences-fonts.dita#preferences-fonts/author_default_font"
            product="author editor"><uicontrol>Author default font</uicontrol> option in the
              <uicontrol>Fonts</uicontrol> preferences page</xref><xref
            href="preferences-fonts.dita#preferences-fonts/author-font"
            product="authorEclipse editorEclipse"><uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> option in the
              <uicontrol>Fonts</uicontrol> preferences page</xref>.</li>
      </ul></note>
    <section id="section_ddy_lr2_w5b">
      <title>Resources</title>
      <p id="p_v5y_bgk_54b">For more information about the bidirectional text support in the
          <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode, watch our video demonstration:</p>
      <p id="p_w5y_bgk_54b"><object width="450" height="250"
          data="https://www.youtube.com/embed/IC0ahH1IS7s" outputclass="iframe">
          <param name="allowfullscreen" value="true"/>
        </object></p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="bidirectional-support.dita" product="author editor"/>
      <link href="grid-bidi.dita"/>
      <link href="unicode-toolbar.dita"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
