<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="browser-compatibility">
  <title>Browser Compatibility</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Browser compatibility</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_vkp_dgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> was developed and continuously tested on the
      following major Web browsers:<ul id="ul_wkp_dgk_54b">
        <li id="li_xkp_dgk_54b"><b>Chrome 90</b> and newer stable versions, running on desktop
          systems. [Recommended for optimal performance and user experience]</li>
        <li id="li_ykp_dgk_54b"><b>Chrome for Android 90</b> and newer stable versions, running on
          Android-enabled devices.</li>
        <li id="li_zkp_dgk_54b"><b>Mozilla Firefox 91</b> and newer stable versions, running on
          desktop systems.</li>
        <li id="li_alp_dgk_54b"><b>Microsoft Edge 91</b> and newer stable versions, running on
          desktop systems.</li>
        <li id="li_blp_dgk_54b"><b>macOS Safari 15</b> and newer stable versions, running on
          macOS.</li>
        <li id="li_clp_dgk_54b"><b>Safari Mobile iOS 15</b> and newer stable versions, running on
          iOS devices.</li>
      </ul><note type="tip">If you encounter issues in any of these browsers, you should try
        updating the browser to the latest version as an initial troubleshooting step.</note></p>
    <p id="p_dlp_dgk_54b">As an HTML 5 application, it is likely to work on other HTML 5 compliant browsers for various
        platforms.<note product="webauthor" id="note_elp_dgk_54b">For browser versions that are released after <ph
          keyref="webappProduct"/> version <ph keyref="minorVersion"/>, the system administrator may
        have to upgrade to the latest maintenance build.</note></p>
    <section id="known_issues">
      <title>Known Issues</title>
      <p id="p_flp_dgk_54b">Due to implementation particularities, <ph keyref="product"/> may exhibit minor behavioral differences:<ul id="ul_glp_dgk_54b">
          <li id="li_hlp_dgk_54b">On Android devices, the content completion list of proposals might display
              <i>undefined</i> elements. To prevent this from happening, go to <menucascade>
              <uicontrol>Settings</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Bandwidth Management </uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Reduce data usage</uicontrol>
            </menucascade> and select <uicontrol>OFF</uicontrol>.</li>
          <li id="li_ilp_dgk_54b">On Safari Mobile and Chrome for Android, there is no warning message if you close the
            browser page without saving the changes made in the document.</li>
          <li id="li_jlp_dgk_54b">The Korean IME (Input Method Editor) is fully supported when
            running <ph keyref="product"/> on Chrome or Safari only.</li>
          <li id="li_jlp_dgk_54b2">The Chinese IME (Input Method Editor) is supported when running
              <ph keyref="product"/> on Chrome only, and the <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-waCustom/topics/customizing-options.html#customizing-options__other_options_supported_by_web_author"
              format="html" scope="external"><codeph>ime_interface</codeph> option</xref> must be
            specified with the value of <codeph>EditContext</codeph>.</li>
          <li id="li_klp_dgk_54b">On Safari Mobile, the native <uicontrol>Bold</uicontrol>,
              <uicontrol>Italic</uicontrol>, and <uicontrol>Underline</uicontrol> actions do not
            work. As a workaround, use the corresponding toolbar actions.</li>
          <li id="li_llp_dgk_54b">On Android devices, the editing works best with <i>Google Keyboard</i> having the
              <uicontrol>Auto-correction</uicontrol> option deselected and the <uicontrol>Show
              correction suggestions</uicontrol> option set to <uicontrol>Always hidden</uicontrol>.
            Alternatively, you can use <i>Google voice typing</i>. <note id="note_mlp_dgk_54b">Using other keyboards can
              lead to unpredictable results. If your document gets corrupted, use the
                <uicontrol>Undo</uicontrol> button.</note></li>
          <li id="li_nlp_dgk_54b">On Safari Mobile versions 6 and 7, the copy/paste support ignores all text formatting,
            keeping only the content.</li>
          <li id="li_qlp_dgk_54b">On Chrome, a review comment that covers only a part of a word causes ligatures to be
            decomposed at the comment's boundaries.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
