<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="callouts-preferences-page">
  <title>Callouts Preferences</title>
     <prolog>
      <metadata>
        <keywords>
          <indexterm>Configure the Application<indexterm>Editor preferences<indexterm>callouts</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        </keywords>
      </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <body>
      <p>To open the <term>Callouts</term> preferences page, go to <menucascade
        product="author editor">
        <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol> Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol> Edit modes</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol> Author</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol> Review</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol> Callouts</uicontrol>
      </menucascade><ph product="authorEclipse editorEclipse"><menucascade>
          <uicontrol>Window</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>oXygen XML Editor</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol> Editor</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol> Edit modes/Pages</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol> Author</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol> Review</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol> Callouts</uicontrol>
        </menucascade></ph>. You can also open this preferences page from the contextual menu of a
      callout. To open the preferences page from the contextual menu, right click the callout and
      select <uicontrol>Callouts Options</uicontrol>.</p>
      <p>This preferences page is divided in two sections. In the first section, you can choose what
      type of callouts <ph keyref="product"/> displays. In the second section, you can customize the
      parameters of the callouts layout. </p>
      <p>The options of the first section are:<ul id="ul_p4f_25w_yf">
          <li><uicontrol>Comments</uicontrol> - displays author review comment callouts and track
            changes comment callouts. This option is enabled by default;</li>
          <li><uicontrol>Track Changes deletion</uicontrol> - enable this option to display deletion
              callouts;<ul id="ul_q1q_z5w_yf">
              <li><uicontrol>Show deleted content in callout</uicontrol> - enable this option to
                display the actual deleted content in the displayed callouts;</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li><uicontrol>Track Changes insertion</uicontrol> - enable this option to display
            insertion callouts. <ul id="ul_4kr_23j_fg">
              <li><uicontrol>Show inserted content in callout</uicontrol> - enable this option to
                display the actual inserted content in the displayed callouts;</li>
            </ul></li>
        </ul></p>
      <p>The following options of the second section control the amount of information shown in each
          callout:<ul id="ul_xrj_rzw_yf">
          <li><uicontrol>Show review time</uicontrol> - enable this option to display the date and
            time of an insertion, deletion, or comment insertion;</li>
          <li><uicontrol>Show all connecting lines</uicontrol> - enable this option to display the
            connecting lines between targets and their corresponding callouts; </li>
          <li><uicontrol>Callouts pane width (px)</uicontrol> - this drop-box specifies the width of
            a callout. The default value of the <uicontrol>Callouts pane width (px)</uicontrol>
            field is 200 pixels. Click the drop-box to modify its value. </li>
          <li><uicontrol>Callouts text limit (characters)</uicontrol> - this drop-box specifies how
            many characters <ph keyref="product"/>
            displays inside a callout. The default value of the <uicontrol>Callouts text limit
              (characters)</uicontrol> field is 160. Click the drop-box to modify its value. </li>
        </ul></p>
    </body>
  
</topic>
