<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE troubleshooting PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Troubleshooting//EN" "troubleshooting.dtd">
<troubleshooting id="cannot-connect-to-svn-repository">
  <title>Cannot Connect to SVN Repository from Repositories View</title>
  <troublebody>
    <condition id="problem">
      <title>Problem</title>
      <p id="p_mdk_dgk_54b">I cannot connect to an SVN repository from the <uicontrol>Repositories</uicontrol> view of
        SVN Client. How can I find more details about the error?</p>
    </condition>
    <troubleSolution>
      <remedy id="solution">
        <title>Solution</title>
        <steps-informal>
          <p id="p_ndk_dgk_54b">First check that you entered the correct URL of the repository in
            the <uicontrol>Repositories</uicontrol> view. Also,  check that an SVN server is running
            on the server machine specified in the repository URL and is accepting connections from
            SVN clients. You can check that the SVN server accepts connections with the command-line
            SVN client from CollabNet.</p>
          <p id="p_odk_dgk_54b">If you try to access the repository with an <codeph>svn+ssh</codeph> URL, also check
            that an SSH server is running on port 22 on the server machine specified in the URL.</p>
          <p id="p_pdk_dgk_54b">If the above conditions are verified and you cannot connect to the SVN repository,
            generate logging files on your computer and send them to <ph keyref="supportEmail"/>.
            For generating the logging files, follow these steps:<ol id="ol_wdj_44r_js">
              <li id="li_qdk_dgk_54b">Create a text file called <filepath>logback.xml</filepath> in
                the application installation folder with the following content:
                <codeblock outputclass="language-ini" id="codeblock_rdk_dgk_54b">&lt;configuration>
    &lt;appender name="R2" class="ch.qos.logback.core.rolling.RollingFileAppender">
        &lt;file>${user.home}/Desktop/oxygenLog/oxygen.log&lt;/file>
        &lt;rollingPolicy class="ch.qos.logback.core.rolling.FixedWindowRollingPolicy">
            &lt;fileNamePattern>${user.home}/Desktop/oxygenLog/oxygen%i.log.gz&lt;/fileNamePattern>
            &lt;minIndex>1&lt;/minIndex>
            &lt;maxIndex>20&lt;/maxIndex>
        &lt;/rollingPolicy>
        &lt;triggeringPolicy class="ch.qos.logback.core.rolling.SizeBasedTriggeringPolicy">
            &lt;maxFileSize>12MB&lt;/maxFileSize>
        &lt;/triggeringPolicy>
        &lt;encoder>
            &lt;pattern>%r %marker %p [ %t ] %c - %m%n&lt;/pattern>
        &lt;/encoder>
    &lt;/appender> 
    
    &lt;root level="debug">
        &lt;appender-ref ref="R2" />
    &lt;/root>
&lt;/configuration></codeblock></li>
              <li id="li_sdk_dgk_54b">Restart the application.</li>
              <li id="li_tdk_dgk_54b">Reproduce the error.</li>
              <li id="li_udk_dgk_54b">Close the application.</li>
              <li id="li_vdk_dgk_54b">Delete the <filepath>logback.xml</filepath> file because it
                might cause performance issues if you leave it in the installation folder. <note
                  type="important" id="note_wdk_dgk_54b">The logging mode may severely decrease the
                  performance of the application. Therefore, do not forget to delete the
                    <filepath>logback.xml</filepath> file when you are done with the
                  procedure.</note></li>
            </ol></p>
          <p id="p_xdk_dgk_54b"><b>Result:</b> The resulting logging files are named <filepath>oxygen.log</filepath>
            and <filepath>oxygen#.log.qz</filepath> (for example, <filepath>oxygen.log</filepath>,
              <filepath>oxygen1.log.gz</filepath>, <filepath>oxygen2.log.gz</filepath>, etc.) and
            are located in the <filepath>Desktop\oxygenLog</filepath> folder.</p>
        </steps-informal>
      </remedy>
    </troubleSolution>
  </troublebody>
</troubleshooting>
