<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="caret-navigation">
  <title>Cursor Navigation Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Preferences<indexterm>Editor<indexterm>Edit
                  Modes<indexterm>Author<indexterm>Cursor
              Navigation</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Cursor navigation preferences</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> allows you to configure the appearance and behavior of the cursor in
      the <xref href="author-editor.dita#author-editor"><uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode
        editor</xref>. To set cursor navigation preferences, <ph
        conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol> Cursor Navigation</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>.</p>
    <p>The following options are available:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Highlight elements near cursor</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>When this option is selected, the element containing the cursor is highlighted. You
            can use the color picker to choose the color of the highlight.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="show-cursor-postion-tooltip">
          <dt><uicontrol>Show cursor position tooltip</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd><ph keyref="product"/> uses <xref keyref="author_caret-position-tooltips">tool tips in
                <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode to indicate the position of the cursor in the
              element structure</xref> of the underlying document. Depending on context, the tool
            tips may show the current element name or the names of the elements before and after the
            current cursor position.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="show-location-tooltip">
          <dt><uicontrol>Show location tooltip on mouse move</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>When this option is selected, <ph keyref="product"/> displays <xref
              href="author-position-information.dita#author-position-information/location_tooltip"
                ><term>Location Tooltips</term></xref> when you are editing the document in certain
            tags display modes (<uicontrol>Inline Tags</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Partial
              Tags</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>No Tags</uicontrol>) or when the mouse pointer is moved
            between <xref keyref="glossentry_block-element"><term>block elements</term></xref>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Quick up/down navigation</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>This option is deselected by default and this means that when you navigate using the
            up and down arrow keys in <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode, the cursor is placed
            within each of the underlying XML elements between two blocks of text (the cursor
            changes to a horizontal line when it is between blocks of text). This allows you to
            easily insert elements and manage the structure of your XML content. However, if this
            option is selected, the cursor ignores the XML structure and jumps from one line of text
            to another, similar to how the cursor behaves in a word processor.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="enable-navigation-cells">
          <dt><uicontrol>Quick navigation in tables</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>This option is selected by default and this means that when navigating between table
            cells with the arrow keys, the cursor jumps from one cell to another. If this option is
            not selected, the cursor navigates between XML nodes when navigating between table cells
            with the arrow keys.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="arrow-keys-writing-direction">
          <dt><uicontrol>Arrow keys move the cursor in the writing direction</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>This setting determines how the left and right arrow keys behave in
              <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode for bidirectional (BIDI) text. When this option is
            selected (default value), the right arrow key advances the cursor in the reading
            direction and the left arrow moves it in the opposite direction. When this option is not
            selected, pressing the right arrow will simply move the cursor to the right (and the
            left arrow moves it to the left), regardless of the text direction.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </body>
</topic>
