<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="certificates">
  <title>Certificates</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>Digital Signature<indexterm>Certificates</indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>A certificate is a digitally signed statement from the issuer (an individual, an
      organization, a website or a firm), saying that the public key (and some other information) of
      some other entity has a particular value. When data is digitally signed, the signature can be
      verified to check the data integrity and authenticity. Integrity means that the data has not
      been modified. Authenticity means the data comes indeed from the entity that claims to have
      created and signed it. Certificates are kept in special repositories called <xref
        keyref="glossentry_keystore"><term>keystores</term></xref>.</p>
    <p>All <term>keystore</term> entries (key and trusted certificate entries) are accessed via
      unique aliases. An alias must be assigned for every new entry of either a key or certificate
      as a reference for that entity. No <term>keystore</term> can store an entity if its alias
      already exists in that <term>keystore</term> and cannot store trusted certificates generated
      with keys in its <term>keystore</term>.</p>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> provides two types of <term>keystores</term>: Java Key Store (JKS) and
      Public-Key Cryptography Standards version 12 (PKCS-12). A <term>keystore</term> file is
      protected by a password. In a PKCS 12 <term>keystore</term> you should not store a certificate
      without alias together with other certificates, with or without alias, as in such a case the
      certificate without alias cannot be extracted from the <term>keystore</term>.</p>
    <p>To configure the options for a certificate or to validate it, <ph
        conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>XML</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>XML Signing Certificates</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>. This opens <xref href="preferences-certificates.dita#preferences-certificates"
        >the certificates preferences page</xref>.</p>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist><title>Related Information:</title><link href="digital-signature-overview.dita#digital-signature-overview"/></linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>