<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="cf-admin-page-users">
  <title>Admin Page - Users Management Tab</title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_rnx_bbn_zxb">The <uicontrol>Users Management</uicontrol> tab of the Content Fusion
      Administration page can be used to assign user roles that determine the functionality they
      have access to when working with projects in Content Fusion. The <b>Users status</b> section
      presents the number of allocated Author licenses out of the maximum number supported by your
      current license plan and the number of SMEs sharing the floating licenses along with the
      number of seats for your license plan. The other section in the tab includes a registered
      users list where you can see all the users along with their information such as username and
      email address.</p>
    <p id="p_whc_tgt_42c">You can use the drop-down menu to the right of each user to assign one of
      two roles:<ul id="ul_rlb_rbn_zxb">
        <li id="li_slb_rbn_zxb"><b>Subject Matter Expert (SME)</b> - This role allows the user to
          access review tasks assigned to them and to create review tasks from scratch. This role
          uses a floating license model.</li>
        <li id="li_tlb_rbn_zxb"><b>Content Fusion Author</b> - In addition to the features that an
          SME has access to, Content Fusion Authors can access all projects and are able to create
          review tasks inside projects, as well as other functionality that is restricted from an
          SME. This role uses a named-user license model.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p id="p_n1h_ygt_42c">
      <note id="note_rm3_ygt_42c">The number or assigned Author users is limited by the maximum
        supported number determined by your license plan. You can buy additional users when renewing
        the subscription or add Authors to an existing subscription.</note>
    </p>
    <p id="p_dlz_p11_1bc">To delete a user, select <uicontrol>Delete user</uicontrol> from the
      drop-down menu to the right of the user.</p>
    <p id="p_delete_user_action">
      <note id="note_lys_mzb_cgc" type="other" othertype="Delete User Notes">
        <ul id="ul_delete_user_consequences">
          <li id="li_action_irreversible">The <uicontrol>Delete user</uicontrol> action <b>cannot be
              undone</b>.</li>
          <li id="li_user_permanently_deleted">The user will be <b>permanently deleted</b> from the
            system and will no longer exist in the user list or have access to any resources.</li>
          <li id="li_sign_in_again">If the deleted user needs to access the system in the future,
            they must sign in again to create a new account. Their previous data and resources will
            not be restored.</li>
          <li id="li_p4b_d1c_cgc">Make sure you review the user's ownership of review tasks and
            private projects before proceeding with the deletion, as these resources will not be
            recoverable.</li>
          <li id="li_resources_removed">The following resources will be permanently removed: <ul
              id="ul_resources_removed_details">
              <li id="li_review_tasks_only_owner">All review tasks where the deleted user is the
                only owner.</li>
              <li id="li_private_projects_no_members">Their private projects that do not have
                additional members, including any review tasks within those projects.</li>
            </ul></li>
        </ul>
      </note>
    </p>
    <p id="p_rp3_3gt_42c">
      <table id="table_mt1_lv4_fzb" colsep="1">
        <title>User Roles Capabilities Matrix</title>
        <tgroup cols="3">
          <colspec colname="newCol1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="2" colwidth="1*" align="center" colsep="1"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="3" colwidth="1*" align="center"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry/>
              <entry>Author</entry>
              <entry>SME</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>Review documents</entry>
              <entry><b>✅</b></entry>
              <entry><b>✅</b></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Create review tasks from <b>Oxygen XML Author/Editor </b></entry>
              <entry><b>✅</b></entry>
              <entry><b>✅</b></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Create review tasks from scratch in a web browser</entry>
              <entry><b>✅</b></entry>
              <entry><b>✅</b></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Create and manage documentation projects</entry>
              <entry><b>✅</b></entry>
              <entry>❌</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Create review tasks starting from project documents</entry>
              <entry><b>✅</b></entry>
              <entry>❌</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Publish WebHelp and PDF output from a project</entry>
              <entry><b>✅</b></entry>
              <entry>❌</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
