<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="cf-admin-page-general">
  <title>Admin Page - General Tab</title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_gf3_x1b_p2c">The <uicontrol>General</uicontrol> tab of the Content Fusion
      Administration page contains the following options:</p>
    <p id="p_hf3_x1b_p2c">
      <dl id="dl_if3_x1b_p2c">
        <dlentry id="dlentry_jf3_x1b_p2c">
          <dt>Server Address</dt>
          <dd>Displays the IP address or DNS name of your server and you can change it.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_kf3_x1b_p2c">
          <dt>HTTPS enabled for Content Fusion</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_lf3_x1b_p2c">Select this option to enable HTTPS protocol for your users. When
              you select this checkbox, it will expand and provide options to upload your
              certificate and private key in PEM format. The key should be unencrypted.</p>
            <p id="p_mf3_x1b_p2c">After you upload your certificate, the information in the
              displayed TLS certificate table will be updated accordingly.<note
                id="note_nf3_x1b_p2c">Make sure that the certificate file you upload includes any
                intermediate certificates that your HTTPS certificate depends on. The certificates
                should be concatenated and the certificate for your domain should be included
                first.</note></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_of3_x1b_p2c">
          <dt>Task sharing behavior (toggle option)</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_pf3_x1b_p2c">
              <dl id="dl_qf3_x1b_p2c">
                <dlentry id="dlentry_rf3_x1b_p2c">
                  <dt>Tasks can be shared publicly (default)</dt>
                  <dd>When this option is selected, an option named <xref
                      href="sharing_tasks_with_reviewers.dita#sharing_tasks_with_reviewers/dlentry_atb_vjg_zxb"
                      product="fusion"><uicontrol>Anyone who opens the link is automatically granted
                        access as a Reviewer</uicontrol></xref> is available in the
                      <uicontrol>Sharing settings</uicontrol> dialog box. Selecting that sharing
                    option for a task means that any registered user may automatically be granted
                    access when they use that task's link.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_sf3_x1b_p2c">
                  <dt>Tasks can only be accessed by specified collaborators</dt>
                  <dd>When this option is selected, task owners need to invite and grant access to
                    specific users for each task.</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_tf3_x1b_p2c">
          <dt>Editing and Publishing Security</dt>
          <dd>Use this option to configure a list of trusted hosts. Each trusted host needs to be
            listed on a separate line.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
    <p id="p_uf3_x1b_p2c">Click <uicontrol>Save</uicontrol> to apply your changes and then restart
      the browser.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
