<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="cf-amazon-s3-connector">
  <title>Publishing Content to Amazon S3</title>
  <body>
    <p>The Amazon S3 connector facilitates the publishing of deliverable build outputs to the
      designated Bucket. </p>
    <section id="section_krc_5pl_2bc">
      <title>Requirements</title>
      <p>To publish content to an Amazon S3 Bucket, ensure you have the following:</p>
      <ul id="ul_lcs_srl_2bc">
        <li>An AWS account.</li>
        <li>An existing S3 Bucket configured. For more details, refer to the AWS <xref
          href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/Welcome.html"
          format="html" scope="external">S3 Documentation</xref></li>
        <li>The Access Key ID and Secret Access Key associated with your AWS account. For
          more details, refer to the AWS <xref
            href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/security-creds.html"
            format="html" scope="external">Security Credentials
            Documentation</xref></li>
      </ul>
      <p>For additional information regarding the above points, please consult the <xref
        href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/" format="html" scope="external">AWS
        Documentation</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_wzb_hql_2bc">
      <title>Define the Connector</title>
      <p>To configure an Amazon S3 Connector, the following fields must be provided:<dl
        id="dl_uc3_4vy_dbc">
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Connector Name</dt>
          <dd>The name of the connector.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Region Name</dt>
          <dd>The AWS Region where your Amazon S3 bucket is hosted. When you create a
            bucket, you specify the AWS Region where you want Amazon S3 to create
            the bucket.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Bucket Name</dt>
          <dd>The Amazon S3 container used for storing your files.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Access Key ID</dt>
          <dd>A unique identifier associated with your AWS account or with an IAM
            user.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Secret Access Key</dt>
          <dd>The secret key used together with Access key ID for authentication.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
      <p>(Screenshot with Amazon S3 connector dialog?)</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_t53_svy_dbc">
      <title>Select the Amazon S3 Connector in Deliverable Settings Page</title>
      <p>To publish the output of a deliverable to Amazon S3, please proceed with the
        following steps: <ol id="ol_lmg_bsl_2bc">
          <li>After configuring the Amazon S3 Connector, navigate to the Deliverable
            Settings page. You can access this page by either editing an existing
            Deliverable or creating a new one.</li>
          <li>Within the Deliverable Settings page, check the "Upload output using a
            publishing connector" option checkbox.</li>
          <li>Select the Amazon S3 Connector that you previously defined from the provided
            list.</li>
          <li>Specify the <filepath>Destination Folder</filepath> where the build output
            will be published. Ensure that the designated folder already exists within
            the Amazon S3 Bucket.<note id="note_zch_2sl_2bc">The output will be
              published as a zip archive in this folder. </note></li>
          <li>Save the Deliverable settings.</li>
          <li>Begin the Deliverable build process. Upon completion, the build output will
            be published to the configured Amazon S3 Bucket as a zip archive within the
            folder you previously designated as the destination folder.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_krd_3sl_2bc">
      <title>(Optional) Lambda Function to unzip content</title>
      <p>The Amazon S3 Connector will publish the deliverable output as a zip file to the
        Destination Folder specified in the Deliverable Settings page. To extract the file,
        one approach is to configure a Lambda Function on AWS to unzip the archive within
        your designated <filepath>Documentation Folder</filepath>. (add the link to the
        procedure on how to define a lambda function)<note id="note_a2b_xvy_dbc">The
          <filepath>Documentation Folder</filepath> should be the folder that is
          publicly accessible to users.</note></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_jwq_511_fbc">
      <title>(Optional) Lifecycle Rule to delete incomplete uploads</title>
      <p>The Amazon S3 Connector will use multipart upload for larger files in order to optimize
        performance. If the upload is interrupted before completing, upload parts may remain stored
        inside your Amazon S3 Bucket. It is recommended to configure a <filepath>Lifecycle
          Rule</filepath> (add the link to the procedure on how to configure a lifecycle rule) for
        your bucket to automatically delete incomplete multipart uploads. </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
