<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="cf-aws">
  <title>Deploying Content Fusion Enterprise on Amazon Web Services (Deprecated)</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Amazon Web Services deployment</indexterm>
        <indexterm>AWS</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Installing an Enterprise server with Amazon Web Services</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <note id="note_c5g_4rh_qtb" type="restriction">To make upgrades and security updates easier,
      this AWS installation kit has been deprecated and is scheduled for removal. If your are using
      this platform, you can start a Virtual Machine that runs one of the supported Linux
      distributions and use the <xref href="cf-linux.dita">Linux installer</xref>.</note>
    <p id="p_r15_dgk_54b">There are two ways to launch <ph keyref="cfEnterprise"/> on Amazon Web Services: using the
      launch button or the EC2 wizard. The first approach is more simple but not as flexible as the
      second one, although it should be sufficient for evaluation purposes.</p>
    <section id="cf_aws_cloud_formation">
      <title>Using the Launch Button (recommended for evaluation purposes only)</title>
      <p id="launch-prereqs">Prerequisites:<ul id="ul_c11_rxd_ndb">
          <li id="li_s15_dgk_54b">An <xref href="https://aws.amazon.com/" format="html" scope="external">Amazon Web
              Services account</xref>. <note id="note_t15_dgk_54b">This setup will require resources that are not covered
              by the free tier.</note></li>
          <li id="li_u15_dgk_54b">An SSH key pair in the Canada (Central) region. You can create one following <xref
              href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-key-pairs.html#having-ec2-create-your-key-pair"
              format="html" scope="external">this tutorial</xref>.</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p id="p_v15_dgk_54b">Procedure:<ol id="ol_y4v_vkd_ndb">
          <li id="li_w15_dgk_54b">Go to the <xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/content_fusion/download.html"
              format="html" scope="external">Download page</xref>.</li>
          <li id="li_x15_dgk_54b">Go to the <uicontrol>AWS</uicontrol> tab and click <uicontrol>Launch on
              AWS</uicontrol>.</li>
          <li id="li_y15_dgk_54b">Make sure you have the <uicontrol>Canada (Central)</uicontrol> region selected. You
            can change it using the drop-down menu in the top-right corner.</li>
          <li id="li_z15_dgk_54b">In the <uicontrol>SSHKeyName</uicontrol>, choose the name of an existing SSH key pair.
            It will be used for SSH access to the instance.<note id="note_ab5_dgk_54b">If there are no options provided in
              the combo-box, see the <xref href="#cf-aws/launch-prereqs" format="dita"
                >prerequisites</xref>.</note></li>
          <li id="li_bb5_dgk_54b">
            <p id="p_cb5_dgk_54b">Review and click <uicontrol>Create</uicontrol>.</p>
            <p id="p_db5_dgk_54b"><b>Step Result:</b> The machine will launch. Expand the
                <uicontrol>Resources</uicontrol> tab to present a link to your launched instance
              where you can find details about the running instance, including its IP address (you
              will need this).</p>
          </li>
          <li id="li_eb5_dgk_54b">Continue <xref href="#cf-aws/d1427e293" format="dita">configuring the <ph
                keyref="cfEnterprise"/></xref>.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="cf_aws_ec2_wizard">
      <title>Using the EC2 Wizard (recommended for production)</title>
      <p id="p_fb5_dgk_54b"><b>Prerequisites:</b> An <xref href="https://aws.amazon.com/" format="html"
          scope="external">Amazon Web Services account</xref>. <note id="note_gb5_dgk_54b">This setup will require
          resources that are not covered by the free tier.</note></p>
      <p id="p_hb5_dgk_54b">Procedure:</p>
      <p id="p_ib5_dgk_54b">
        <ol id="ul_uln_v2d_ndb">
          <li id="li_jb5_dgk_54b">Go to your <xref
            href="https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/"
              format="html" scope="external">EC2 dashboard</xref>.</li>
          <li id="li_kb5_dgk_54b">Make sure you have the <uicontrol>Canada (Central)</uicontrol> region selected. You
            can change it using the drop-down menu in the top-right corner.</li>
          <li id="li_lb5_dgk_54b">Click <uicontrol>Launch Instance</uicontrol>.</li>
          <li id="li_mb5_dgk_54b">Choose the <uicontrol>Amazon Machine Image</uicontrol>:<ol id="ul_vln_v2d_ndb">
              <li id="li_nb5_dgk_54b">Switch to the <uicontrol>Community AMIs</uicontrol> tab.</li>
              <li id="li_ob5_dgk_54b">Insert the <xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/content_fusion/download.html"
                  format="html" scope="external">AMI ID listed on the download page</xref> in the
                search field.</li>
              <li id="li_pb5_dgk_54b">Click the <uicontrol>Select</uicontrol> button.</li>
            </ol></li>
          <li id="li_qb5_dgk_54b">Choose the <uicontrol>Instance Type</uicontrol>. It is recommended
            that you use at least a <b>t3.medium</b> instance (2 <term>vCPUs</term>, 4
              <term>GiB</term> Memory) or higher, depending on the expected activity.</li>
          <li id="li_rb5_dgk_54b">Configure <uicontrol>Instance Details</uicontrol>. You can leave all options with
            their default values, except for:<ul id="ul_xln_v2d_ndb">
              <li id="li_sb5_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>Enable termination protection</uicontrol>:
                  <uicontrol>Enabled</uicontrol></li>
              <li id="li_tb5_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>Auto-assign Public IP</uicontrol>: <uicontrol>Enabled</uicontrol></li>
              <li id="li_ub5_dgk_54b"><menucascade>
                  <uicontrol>Advanced Details</uicontrol>
                  <uicontrol>Metadata version</uicontrol>
                </menucascade>: <uicontrol>V2 (token required)</uicontrol></li>
            </ul></li>
          <li id="li_vb5_dgk_54b">Add <uicontrol>Storage</uicontrol>. The <codeph>/dev/sdb</codeph> volume will be used
            to store the database and files uploaded by the users as part of the review tasks. It is
            preconfigured to be 100GiB and can be adjusted.</li>
          <li id="li_wb5_dgk_54b">Add <uicontrol>Tags</uicontrol>. Adding the name tag might be useful to identify the
            instance and volumes attached to it more easily.</li>
          <li id="li_xb5_dgk_54b">Configure <uicontrol>Security Group</uicontrol>. Select or create a security group
            with the following inbound rules:<ul id="ul_bmn_v2d_ndb">
              <li id="li_yb5_dgk_54b">port 80, source <uicontrol>Anywhere</uicontrol></li>
              <li id="li_zb5_dgk_54b">port 443, source <uicontrol>Anywhere</uicontrol></li>
              <li id="li_ac5_dgk_54b">port 22, source <uicontrol>My IP</uicontrol> (recommended) or
                  <uicontrol>Anywhere</uicontrol> (for SSH administrative access)</li>
              <li id="li_bc5_dgk_54b">port 9080, source <uicontrol>My IP</uicontrol> (recommended) or
                  <uicontrol>Anywhere</uicontrol> (for web-based administrative access)</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li id="li_cc5_dgk_54b">
            <p id="p_dc5_dgk_54b">Click <uicontrol>Review and Launch</uicontrol>. You will be asked to select a key
              pair or create a new one.</p>
            <p id="p_ec5_dgk_54b"><b>Step Result:</b> The machine will launch and you will be presented with a link to
              your launched instance where you can find details about the running instance,
              including its IP address (you will need this).</p>
          </li>
          <li id="li_fc5_dgk_54b">Continue <xref href="#cf-aws/d1427e293" format="dita">configuring the <ph
                keyref="cfEnterprise"/></xref>.</li>
        </ol>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section conkeyref="reusables-cf/initial_oxygen_content_fusion_configuration_in_th"
      id="d1427e293"/>
    <section id="section_kcb_ql1_2hb">
      <title>AWS Configuration</title>
      <p id="p_gc5_dgk_54b">All the data is stored on the EBS volume that was added during the EC2 wizard. You may want
        to set up periodic snapshots of this volume. To recover the data from such a snapshot, start
        a fresh Content Fusion VM following the <xref href="#cf-aws/cf_aws_ec2_wizard">EC2
          wizard</xref> and when adding storage to the machine, choose the snapshot you want to
        recover.</p>
    </section>
    <section conkeyref="reusables-cf/configuring_oxygen_xml_editorauthor_to_connect_to"
      id="d1427e297"/>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="cf-custom-frameworks.dita#cf-custom-frameworks"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
