<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="cf-admin-page-webauthor">
  <title>Admin Page - Web Author Tab</title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_ojc_tz1_p2c">The <uicontrol>Web Author</uicontrol> tab of the Content Fusion
      Administration page contains a <uicontrol>Manage Web Author</uicontrol> button. Clicking this
      button opens the <b>Oxygen XML Web Author</b>
      <uicontrol>Administration Page</uicontrol>. This page provides options for configuring the
      visual editor that is used in <ph keyref="product"/>. For example, you can <xref
        href="cf-custom-frameworks.dita#cf-custom-frameworks">upload your own custom
        frameworks</xref> using this page. The following settings are available:<dl
        id="dl_avq_dgk_54b">
        <dlentry id="dlentry_bvq_dgk_54b">
          <dt>General</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_cvq_dgk_54b">
              <dl id="dl_dvq_dgk_54b">
                <dlentry id="dlentry_evq_dgk_54b">
                  <dt>Change tracking initial state</dt>
                  <dd>Allows you the choose the initial state of the <i>Change Tracking</i> feature.
                    You can choose between <uicontrol>Stored in document</uicontrol>,
                      <uicontrol>Always On</uicontrol>, and <uicontrol>Always Off</uicontrol>.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_fvq_dgk_54b">
                  <dt>Show content completion list when pressing Enter</dt>
                  <dd>This option is selected by default, which means that when a user presses the
                        <uicontrol><shortcut>Enter</shortcut></uicontrol> key, the content
                    completion popup window will be opened. If this option is not selected, the
                        <uicontrol><shortcut>Enter</shortcut></uicontrol> key will work similar to
                    the behavior in normal word processors, but the user will still have the ability
                    to open the content completion list by pressing
                        <uicontrol><shortcut>CTRL+Enter</shortcut></uicontrol>.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_gvq_dgk_54b">
                  <dt>Show all possible elements in content completion list</dt>
                  <dd>When selected, the <term>Content Completion Assistant</term> includes all
                    possible elements, including those that are invalid at the current location, but
                    those proposals are rendered in a lighter shade of gray, italicized, and appear
                    after the valid proposals.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="change-editors-without-reload">
                  <dt>Change editors without page reload</dt>
                  <dd>When enabled, documents can be loaded in the main editing area without
                    refreshing the entire web page. If you have customized the visual editor through
                    plugins, there might be instances where a custom behavior does not work as
                    intended without refreshing the page, so disabling this option provides a
                    possible temporary solution until the plugin is updated to account for the
                    changes added to functionality.</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_jvq_dgk_54b">
          <dt>Plugins</dt>
          <dd>Displays the various <term>plugins</term> for your <ph keyref="product"/> and allows
            you to add and configure them. It also includes an <uicontrol>Upload plugin</uicontrol>
            button for adding new ones to the list. You can also click the <uicontrol>Discover More
              Plugins</uicontrol> link to open a webpage with a list of supported plugins.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_kvq_dgk_54b">
          <dt>Frameworks</dt>
          <dd>Displays the various <term>frameworks</term> for your <ph keyref="product"/> and
            allows you to add and configure them. It also includes an <uicontrol>Upload
              framework</uicontrol> button for adding new ones to the list.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_lvq_dgk_54b">
          <dt>Connection</dt>
          <dd>Allows you to configure the proxy settings.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_mvq_dgk_54b">
          <dt>Security</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_nvq_dgk_54b">Provides options for handling security-related features:</p>
            <p id="p_ovq_dgk_54b">
              <dl id="dl_k2d_fqk_vyb">
                <dlentry id="dlentry_t5g_xqk_vyb">
                  <dt>Security Options</dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p id="p_etb_jnk_vyb">
                      <dl id="dl_vyj_lnk_vyb">
                        <dlentry id="accept-security-certificate">
                          <dt>Reject invalid security certificates</dt>
                          <dd>If selected, HTTPS connections with invalid certificates will be
                            rejected. If not selected, security certificates are accepted, even if
                            they are invalid.</dd>
                        </dlentry>
                      </dl>
                    </p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_sk5_fnk_vyb">
                  <dt>Trusted Code</dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p id="p_jhy_gnk_vyb">
                      <dl id="dl_tk4_mnk_vyb">
                        <dlentry id="trusted-code">
                          <dt>Trusted code locations</dt>
                          <dd>By default, Web Author does not load code (such as CSS or Schematron)
                            referenced directly in documents unless it comes from the framework
                            (document type association) or a plugin. However, you can specify code
                            locations to be considered trusted by adding them (one per line) in the
                            text area in this option.</dd>
                        </dlentry>
                      </dl>
                    </p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_oy5_s5m_cbc">
                  <dt>Content Security Policy (CSP)</dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p id="p_z5l_w5m_cbc">
                      <dl id="dl_c4p_w5m_cbc">
                        <dlentry id="dlentry_d4p_w5m_cbc">
                          <dt>Use CSP</dt>
                          <dd>If selected, the <i>Content Security Policy (CSP)</i> header is
                            enabled. The Content Security Policy provides a standard HTTP header
                            that allows website owners to declare approved sources of content that
                            browsers should be allowed to load on that page. It helps to prevent
                            cross-site scripting (XSS) and related attacks. For more information
                            about the Content Security Policy, see: <xref
                              href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CSP"
                              format="html" scope="external"/>.</dd>
                        </dlentry>
                        <dlentry id="dlentry_lt3_1vm_cbc">
                          <dt>Use a Custom Policy</dt>
                          <dd>If selected, additional fields are revealed where you can use to
                            configure you own custom security policy.</dd>
                        </dlentry>
                      </dl>
                    </p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p>
            <p id="p_udx_lht_42c">
              <note id="note_brc_mht_42c" type="tip">For more details about security features, see
                  <xref href="cf-security.dita"/>.</note>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </body>
</topic>
