<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="cf-admin-page-authentication">
  <title>Admin Page - Authentication Tab</title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_ug5_dgk_54b">The <uicontrol>Authentication</uicontrol> tab of the Content Fusion
      Administration page contains the following options:</p>
    <p id="p_vg5_dgk_54b">
      <dl id="dl_wg5_dgk_54b">
        <dlentry id="dlentry_udf_43t_42c">
          <dt>Single Sign-On Authentication</dt>
          <dd>Use this section to configure single sign-on authentication settings for solutions
            such as Microsoft Entra ID or Okta.<p id="p_vdf_43t_42c">
              <dl id="dl_wdf_43t_42c">
                <dlentry id="dlentry_xdf_43t_42c">
                  <dt>Use OIDC single sign-on</dt>
                  <dd>Select this option if you want to use your own OIDC configuration instead of
                    the built-in authentication. When you select this checkbox, it will expand and
                    provide options to configure the details of your OIDC authentication. For
                    details about configuring the options, see <xref href="cf-oidc-auth.dita"
                    />.</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p><p id="p_ydf_43t_42c">Make sure you click <uicontrol>Save Configuration</uicontrol>
              when you are finished.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_zdf_43t_42c">
          <dt>Email and Password Authentication</dt>
          <dd>If the <uicontrol>Enable Sign Up</uicontrol> option is enabled (default state), users
            are allowed to sign up using email and password credentials. You can use the
              <uicontrol>Permitted Email Addresses</uicontrol> field to restrict the sign-up to
            specific email addresses or to emails that match a specific pattern (e.g. to permit all
            email addresses with a specific domain suffix). Here are some example email patterns you
            can use:<dl id="dl_png_rg2_p2c">
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Allow all emails from a specific domain</dt>
                <dd><codeph>*@example.com</codeph></dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Allow emails with a specific username</dt>
                <dd><codeph>user@example.com</codeph></dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl>Leaving the <uicontrol>Permitted Email Addresses</uicontrol> field empty signifies
            that all emails are permitted.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_a2f_43t_42c">
          <dt>LDAP Authentication Settings</dt>
          <dd>Use this section to configure LDAP authentication settings.<p id="p_b2f_43t_42c">
              <dl id="dl_ldap_auth">
                <dlentry id="LDAP-Auth">
                  <dt>Use LDAP Authentication</dt>
                  <dd>Select this option if you want to use your own LDAP configuration instead of
                    the built-in authentication. When you select this checkbox, it will expand and
                    provide options to configure the details of your LDAP authentication.<note
                      id="note_xg5_dgk_54b">If your LDAP server uses a self-signed SSL certificate,
                      select the <uicontrol>Use SSL</uicontrol> option and choose your
                      certificate.</note><note id="note_yg5_dgk_54b" type="tip">It is also possible
                      to configure your <ph keyref="cfEnterprise"/> to accept <xref
                        href="cf-google-auth.dita">Google</xref> or <xref href="cf-github-auth.dita"
                        >GitHub authentication</xref>.</note><p id="p_zg5_dgk_54b">
                      <dl id="dl_ah5_dgk_54b">
                        <dlentry id="dlentry_bh5_dgk_54b">
                          <dt>Allow both LDAP accounts and standard email accounts</dt>
                          <dd>If this option is not selected, users will only be able to log in
                            using their LDAP credentials. If you select this option, users will be
                            able to log in using their LDAP credentials or sign up using their email
                            address.</dd>
                        </dlentry>
                      </dl>
                    </p></dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p><p id="p_htr_cgt_42c">
              <note id="note_es2_dgt_42c" type="tip">For information about testing your
                configuration, see <xref href="ldap_troubleshoot.dita"/>.</note>
            </p></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
    <p id="p_ch5_dgk_54b">Click <uicontrol>Save</uicontrol> to apply your changes.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
