<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="cf-admin-page-maintenance">
  <title>Admin Page - Maintenance Tab</title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_eh5_dgk_54b">The <uicontrol>Maintenance</uicontrol> tab of the Content Fusion
      Administration page contains the following sections and options:</p>
    <p id="p_fh5_dgk_54b">
      <dl id="dl_gh5_dgk_54b">
        <dlentry id="dlentry_hh5_dgk_54b">
          <dt>Maintenance Mode</dt>
          <dd>Click the <uicontrol>Enable Maintenance Mode</uicontrol> button to enable a
            maintenance mode that prevents users from accessing the server during this time. This
            allows you to perform maintenance tasks without the risk of corrupting data. Users will
            see a message in the <b>Content Fusion</b> browser interface letting them know that the
            site is temporarily down for maintenance purposes.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_ih5_dgk_54b">
          <dt>Announcement Banner</dt>
          <dd>Click the <uicontrol>Configure Message</uicontrol> if you want to display a message at
            the topic of each <b>Content Fusion</b> page. This is helpful if you need to post
            announcements (such as announcing changes, maintenance schedules, or upgrade
            information).</dd>
          <dd>To disable the message, simply configure the message with empty content.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_jh5_dgk_54b">
          <dt>Database</dt>
          <dd><b>Content Fusion</b> stores user profiles and task metadata in a database that is
            backed up and rotated hourly, daily, and weekly. <b>Content Fusion</b> stores database
            backups for one month. In this section, you can see a list of the latest backups and you
            have access to the following options:<ul id="ul_kh5_dgk_54b">
              <li id="li_lh5_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>Create Database Backup</uicontrol> - Click this
                button to create a new backup of the database. Prior to clicking that button, you
                can also use the <uicontrol>Custom backup name</uicontrol> text field to specify a
                particular name, useful for identifying the newly created backup.</li>
              <li id="li_mh5_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>Restore Database from Backup</uicontrol> - You can
                select a particular backup listed in this section and then click the
                  <uicontrol>Restore Database from Backup</uicontrol> button to restore the database
                to that selected backup.</li>
            </ul><note id="note_nh5_dgk_54b">To create a full <b>Content Fusion</b> backup that
              contains task metadata, task files, user profiles, and configuration information, see
                <xref href="cf-enterprise-backups.dita#cf-enterprise-backups"/>.</note></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="logs">
          <dt>Logs</dt>
          <dd>Click the <uicontrol>Show Logs</uicontrol> button to open a page where you can view or
            download server logs.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
