<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="cf-customizing-options">
  <title>Customizing Options and Features</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Customizing options</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Customizing the editor</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Customize AutoCorrect term list</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Customize spell checker term list</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Customize learned words</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="cf-configuration-page">It is possible to customize the online editor that is built in to
      the <b>Oxygen Content Fusion</b> interface by <xref href="cf-custom-frameworks.dita">using a
        custom framework</xref>, but it is also possible to customize certain options and features
      by making changes to particular configuration files. For example, you can configure term lists
      used by the spell checker or <i>AutoCorrect</i> feature, and you can configure various options
      to customize the editing experience for all users.</p>
    <section id="author_mode_options">
      <title>Configuring Options for the Users' Editing Experience</title>
      <p>The functionality of the <b>Oxygen Content Fusion</b> built-in visual editor shares many of
        the same options used in <b>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</b>. The options are stored in an
          <filepath>options.xml</filepath> file that is located in the
          <filepath>fusion/data/config/webauthor/options</filepath> folder. You can adjust this file
        to configure the options used for the editing experience of all users. The options file has
        the following
        format:<codeblock outputclass="xml">&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;serialized version="18.1" xml:space="preserve">
  &lt;map>   
    &lt;entry>
      &lt;String>author.show.comments&lt;/String>
      &lt;Boolean>true&lt;/Boolean>       
    &lt;/entry>
  &lt;/map>
&lt;/serialized></codeblock>An
        additional <xmlelement>entry</xmlelement> should be added in this file for each option.</p>
      <table id="table_rcr_qpy_2x" colsep="1" rowsep="1" frame="all">
        <title><b>Oxygen XML Editor/Author Options Supported in Oxygen Content Fusion</b></title>
        <tgroup cols="3">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="3.25*"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="newCol3" colnum="3" colwidth="2.75*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Key</entry>
              <entry>Type</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>additional.frameworks.directories</entry>
              <entry><xref href="#cf-customizing-options/example-entry" format="dita">See example
                  entry below</xref></entry>
              <entry>
                <p>An array of java.lang.String objects representing paths to the additional
                    <term>frameworks</term> folders (may also contain editor variables). </p>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>ADMIN_PAGE_IS_DISABLED</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry><codeph>true</codeph> to disable the Administration Page completely.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>author.convert.external.content.on.paste</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>
                <p>Option that controls whether or not the content pasted in Author mode should be
                  converted to match the destination styles.</p>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>author.convert.external.content.space.preserve</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>
                <p>Option that controls whether or not the content pasted in
                    <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode should be converted to match the destination
                  styles in <xref keyref="glossentry_space-preserved-element"><term>space-preserved
                      elements</term></xref>.</p>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>author.format.compatibility</entry>
              <entry>Integer</entry>
              <entry>Use this option to control how line breaks are handled when a document is
                    serialized.<p><b>0</b> - (Default value) None.</p><p><b>1</b> - Do not break, do
                  not indent.</p><p><b>2</b> - Break lines only after block elements, do not
                  indent.</p></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>author.image.width.autoscale.limit</entry>
              <entry>Integer</entry>
              <entry>If set to a value greater than 0, images wider than this number of pixels will
                be resized. By default 1024.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>author.show.comments</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>Show the comment nodes in the author page.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>author.show.processing.instructions</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>Show the pi nodes in the author page.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>auto.correct.double.quotes</entry>
              <entry><xref href="#cf-customizing-options/example-single-quote" format="dita">See
                  example entry below</xref></entry>
              <entry>If set, Web Author automatically replaces double quotes with the specified
                quotation symbols. </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>auto.correct.single.quotes</entry>
              <entry><xref href="#cf-customizing-options/example-single-quote" format="dita">See
                  example entry below</xref></entry>
              <entry>If set, Web Author automatically replaces single quotes with the specified
                quotation symbols. </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>autocorrect.feature.state</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>Used to enable/disable the auto-correct feature.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>autocorrect.use.suggeestions.from.spell.check.dicts</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>Used to enrich the auto-correct suggestions with entries from spell checking
                dictionaries.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>automatically.accept.certificates</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>Option that controls if Oxygen will accept all HTTPS certificates.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>default.xml.schema.version</entry>
              <entry>String</entry>
              <entry>The XML Schema version to use if it is not specified in the schema file (see
                  <xref href="#cf-customizing-options/schema-ver-note" format="dita">schema version
                  note</xref>). The default version is <b>1.0</b>.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>dita.fill.link.format.attribute</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>Use <b>true</b> to force the insertion of the <codeph>format</codeph> attribute
                when inserting a link in DITA even when the attribute has a default value.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>dita.fill.link.scope.attribute</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>Use <b>true</b> to force the insertion of the <codeph>scope</codeph> attribute
                when inserting a link in DITA even when the attribute has a default value.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>dita.fill.link.type.attribute</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>Use <b>true</b> to force the insertion of the <codeph>type</codeph> attribute
                when inserting a link in DITA even when the attribute has a default value.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>dita.ot.directory</entry>
              <entry>String</entry>
              <entry>The directory path to the default DITA OT installation.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>editor.line.width</entry>
              <entry>Integer</entry>
              <entry>Used to define the number of characters after which a hard line-wrapping action
                is performed (default is 100).</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>http.max.simultaneous.connections.per.host</entry>
              <entry>Integer</entry>
              <entry>Limits the number of connections the HTTP client can open to the same server
                host.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>http.proxy.direct</entry>
              <entry>String</entry>
              <entry>Comma-separated list of hosts for which the proxy is bypassed.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>http.proxy.host</entry>
              <entry>String</entry>
              <entry>Proxy hostname or IP address.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>http.proxy.password</entry>
              <entry>String</entry>
              <entry>Proxy password.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>http.proxy.port</entry>
              <entry>Integer</entry>
              <entry>Proxy port.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>http.proxy.set</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>HTTP proxy uses manual configuration.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>http.proxy.system</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>"True" to detect HTTP proxy from system.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>http.proxy.user</entry>
              <entry>String</entry>
              <entry>Proxy user.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>http.read.timeout.seconds</entry>
              <entry>Integer</entry>
              <entry>An integer number that configures the timeout used when waiting for an HTTP
                request.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>insertOnlyElementsFromCCList</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>If set to <b>true</b>, the content completion list will only show elements that
                are valid at the current position.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Schematron_custom_language</entry>
              <entry>String</entry>
              <entry>The two-letter country code (for example:
                  <codeph>en</codeph>,<codeph>fr</codeph>).</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Schematron_language_option</entry>
              <entry>Integer</entry>
              <entry>
                <p><b>2</b> (default value) - The Schematron <codeph>xml:lang</codeph> value defined
                  on the root of the schema will be used.</p>
                <p><b>3</b> - The language attributes are ignored. All messages will be
                  presented.</p>
                <p><b>4</b> - A custom language defined by the option
                    <codeph>Schematron_custom_language</codeph>will be used.</p>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>show.caret.position.info</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>Use <b>false</b> to disable the tooltip popup that is normally displayed at the
                cursor position.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>showAllPossibleElementsInCCList</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>If set to <b>true</b>, the content completion list will show all the elements
                in the schema, even those that are not valid at the current position.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry id="spell-check-options-entry">spell.check.options</entry>
              <entry><xref href="#cf-customizing-options/example-single-quote" format="dita">See
                  example entry below</xref></entry>
              <entry>Can be used to set some spell-checking options, including the default language
                used when no <codeph>xml:lang</codeph> attribute is set.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry id="topic-content-refs-limit">topic.content.refs.limit</entry>
              <entry>Integer</entry>
              <entry>The maximum number of references that can be contained within a DITA map to
                display it in the <uicontrol>View Topic Content</uicontrol> mode.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>track.changes.initial.state</entry>
              <entry>Integer</entry>
              <entry>Option for <term>track changes</term> initial state.<ul>
                  <li><b>0</b> - Initial state stored in document.</li>
                  <li><b>1</b> - <term>Track changes</term> always on.</li>
                  <li><b>2</b> - <term>Track changes</term> always off.</li>
                </ul></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>undo.history.limit.v10.3</entry>
              <entry>Integer</entry>
              <entry>The number of operations that can be undone. By default 200.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>validate.as.you.type</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>Use <b>false</b> to turn off the automatic validation.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>validate.max.errors.number</entry>
              <entry>Integer</entry>
              <entry>The maximum number of validation errors that can be shown. Default value is
                100.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>WEBAPP_SHOW_ADMIN_PAGE_LINK</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry><codeph>true</codeph> to display the admin page link on the dashboard.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      <note type="other" othertype="Schema Version Note" id="schema-ver-note">To specify an XML
        Schema version (for example, 1.1) directly in the schema file, you need to add an attribute
        to the namespace declaration like
        this:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">xmlns:vc="http://www.w3.org/2007/XMLSchema-versioning" vc:minVersion="1.1"</codeblock></note>
      <sectiondiv><b>Example Entries:</b><p id="example-entry">Example entry for
            <codeph>additional.frameworks.directories</codeph>
          option:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;entry>
  &lt;String>
   additional.frameworks.directories
  &lt;/String>
  &lt;String-array>
    &lt;String>
     /path/to/frameworks
    &lt;/String>
  &lt;/String-array>
&lt;/entry></codeblock></p><p
          id="example-single-quote">Example entry for <codeph>auto.correct.single.quotes</codeph>
          and <codeph>auto.correct.double.quotes</codeph>
          option:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;entry> 
  &lt;String>auto.correct.single.quotes&lt;/String> &lt;!–- or auto.correct.double.quotes  -->
  &lt;autoCorrectQuotes>
    &lt;field name="enabled">
      &lt;Boolean>true&lt;/Boolean>
    &lt;/field>
    &lt;field name="startQuote">
      &lt;Character>‘&lt;/Character>
    &lt;/field>
    &lt;field name="endQuote">
      &lt;Character>’&lt;/Character>
    &lt;/field>
  &lt;/autoCorrectQuotes>
&lt;/entry></codeblock></p><p
          id="example-spellcheck">Example entry for <codeph>spell.check.options</codeph> option:
          <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;entry>
  &lt;String>spell.check.options&lt;/String>
  &lt;spellCheckOptions>
    &lt;field name="language">
      &lt;String>de_DE&lt;/String>
    &lt;/field>
  &lt;/spellCheckOptions>
&lt;/entry></codeblock></p></sectiondiv>
    </section>
    <section id="create_and_add_personalized_term_lists">
      <title>Adding Custom Term Lists for the Spell Checker</title>
      <p>You can create personalized term lists that are used to store specialized terms (<i>learned
          words</i>) or control forbidden words. They can then be added to one of the directories
        that store the spell check dictionaries and the spell checker will be merge them with all
        the dictionaries and other term lists for a particular language.</p>
      <p>To create and add a personalized terms list, follow these steps:<ol>
          <li>Create a <i>term list</i> file (with a <filepath>.tdi</filepath> file extension). The
            name of the file must begin with a two letter prefix that indicates the language it
            should be attached to, followed by an underscore or hyphen, and then a descriptive name
            (for example, <filepath>en_US_myterms.tdi</filepath> for term list in the US version of
            the English language or <filepath>en_myterms.tdi</filepath> for a less specific English
            term list). For a list of language codes, see <xref
              href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes" format="html"
              scope="external"/>.</li>
          <li>In the term list file (<filepath>.tdi</filepath> extension), add the terms you want to
            be included in your custom dictionary. If you need to specify forbidden terms, those
            words simply need to be preceded by an asterisk. Add one word per row, as in the
            following
            example:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini">     parabola
     asimptotic
     *hyperbola</codeblock></li>
          <li>Save the file (<filepath>.tdi</filepath>) in the
              <filepath>fusion/data/config/webauthor/options/spell</filepath> folder.</li>
          <li>Restart the server for the spell checker to start using the new terms list.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="create_autocorrect_term_lists">
      <title>Customizing the AutoCorrect Terms List</title>
      <p>The <b>Oxygen Content Fusion</b> built-in visual editor includes an AutoCorrect feature to
        automatically correct misspelled words as you type. There is a default list of commonly
        misspelled words and symbols for each supported language, but you can modify the list to
        suit your needs.</p>
      <p>To customize the term list used by the <term>AutoCorrect</term> feature, follow these steps:<ol>
          <li>In <b>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</b>, go to <menucascade>
              <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Edit Modes</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>AutoCorrect</uicontrol>
            </menucascade>.</li>
          <li>Make whatever changes you require and click <uicontrol>Apply</uicontrol>. If you need
            help with any of the options in this preferences page, see <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-editor/topics/autocorrect-preferences-page.html"
              format="html" scope="external"/>.</li>
          <li>Go to <menucascade>
              <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Edit Modes</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>AutoCorrect</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Dictionaries</uicontrol>
            </menucascade> and note the location where the dictionaries are stored.</li>
          <li>Navigate to that location with a file explorer and look for a patch file (it should
            look like: <filepath>en_patch.xml</filepath>).</li>
          <li>Copy or move that patch file to the
              <filepath>fusion/data/config/webauthor/options/autocorrect</filepath> folder.</li>
          <li>Restart the server for the <term>AutoCorrect</term> feature to start using the new
            terms list.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
