<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="cf-configure-firewall">
  <title>Configuring Firewall Settings for Content Fusion Services</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Firewall settings</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_ygs_jl1_3dc">To function properly, <ph keyref="cfEnterprise"/> requires access to
      external networks or the internet for various services:</p>
    <ul id="ol_zgs_jl1_3dc">
      <li id="li_ahs_jl1_3dc"><b>Mail server</b> - Connects to an external mail server as
        configured.</li>
      <li id="li_bhs_jl1_3dc"><b>Authentication</b> - User accounts may be configured on an external
        LDAP server.</li>
      <li id="li_chs_jl1_3dc"><b>OAuth services</b> - Supports login via OAuth providers such as
        Microsoft Teams or Google (if enabled).</li>
      <li id="li_dhs_jl1_3dc"><b>reCAPTCHA</b> - Used for login protection (if enabled).</li>
      <li id="li_ehs_jl1_3dc"><b>External content</b> - The XML authoring tool and the publishing
        process may connect to servers (for example, to load images). These servers are configured
        in the <xref href="cf-admin-page-general.dita#cf-admin-page-general/dlentry_tf3_x1b_p2c"
            ><uicontrol>Editing and Publishing Security</uicontrol> section</xref> of the admin
        page.</li>
      <li id="li_hhs_jl1_3dc"><b>Project creation</b> - Accesses repositories on Git or GitLab
        servers.</li>
      <li id="li_ihs_jl1_3dc"><b>Publishing delivery</b> - Amazon S3, Netlify, or SFTP servers.</li>
      <li id="li_jhs_jl1_3dc"><b>License verification</b> - The service connects to
          <filepath>oxygenxml.com</filepath> (this connection is optional). If the connection is
        blocked, the service will continue working normally.</li>
      <li id="li_khs_jl1_3dc"><b>Fonts</b> - The <uicontrol>Oxygen Styles Basket</uicontrol>
        connects to Google Fonts for font resources
          (<filepath>https://fonts.googleapis.com/</filepath>).</li>
    </ul>
  </body>
</topic>
