<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_htj_qv3_hgc">
    <title>Configuring the Task Executor Container</title>
    <body>
        <p>The <i><b>Task Executor Container</b></i> is used for executing various tasks, such as
            building deliverables and validating the publications. You can configure the container
            by setting some properties:<ul id="ul_vyb_wv3_hgc">
                <li>
                    <p><b>executor.service.ope.max.memory</b></p>
                    <p>Specifies the maximum memory allocated for a single publishing build. Default
                        value is 1024 MB.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>executor.service.validation.max.memory</b></p>
                    <p>Specifies the maximum memory allocated for a single validation build. Default
                        value is 200 MB.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>executor.service.parallel.publishing.builds</b></p>
                    <p>Defines the maximum number of publishing builds that the application can
                        execute simultaneously. This limits how many publishing processes can be
                        handled at once, helping to manage server load and optimize resource usage.
                        Default value is 2.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>executor.service.parallel.validation.builds</b></p>
                    <p>Defines the maximum number of validation builds that the application can
                        execute simultaneously. Controls how many validation processes can occur at
                        the same time, ensuring efficient validation processing while balancing
                        server performance. Default value is 5.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>executor.service.metrics.disk.store.period</b></p>
                    <p>Determines how long (in days) the server should retain publishing build
                        metrics on disk. This ensures that metrics for builds are stored for a
                        limited time, preventing disk space overuse by automatically purging old
                        data after the specified retention period. Default value is 30.</p>
                </li>
            </ul></p>
        <example id="example_xwt_52j_hgc">Sample configuration (to be added under the environment
            section of the <i>task-executor</i> container in the
            <i>docker-compose.override.yml</i>):<codeblock id="codeblock_cdt_w2j_hgc">- JAVA_OPTS=-Dexecutor.service.validation.max.memory=500 -Dexecutor.service.ope.max.memory=800 -Dexecutor.service.parallel.builds.number=3 -Xmx512M</codeblock></example>
    </body>
</topic>
