<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="cf-custom-frameworks">
  <title>Using Custom Frameworks in Content Fusion</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Using custom frameworks</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Document type specializations</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="cf-configuration-page">One of the advantages of using the <ph keyref="cfEnterprise"/>
      solution is that it can be configured to support any DITA specialization or XML language. This
      must be done by someone who has access to customize <term>Oxygen XML Web Author</term> (for
      example, a server administrator).</p>
    <p id="p_sd5_dgk_54b">For information about how to create, configure, reuse, test, and upload custom frameworks,
      see <xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-waCustom/topics/customizing_frameworks.html"
        format="html" scope="external">Integrating Web Author with Your Content by Creating Custom
        Frameworks</xref>.</p>
    <p id="p_td5_dgk_54b">To upload a custom <term>framework</term> to your <term>Oxygen XML Web Author</term>
      deployment, follow this procedure:<ol id="upload-framework-ol">
        <li id="li_ud5_dgk_54b">Go to your <xref href="cf-enterprise-configuration.dita#cf-enterprise-configuration"
            >Content Fusion Enterprise Administration Page</xref>.</li>
        <li id="li_vd5_dgk_54b">In the <uicontrol>Web Author</uicontrol> tab, click <uicontrol>Manage Web
            Author</uicontrol>. This will open the <term>Oxygen XML Web Author</term>
          <uicontrol>Administration</uicontrol> page.</li>
        <li id="li_wd5_dgk_54b">Select <uicontrol>Frameworks</uicontrol>.</li>
        <li id="li_xd5_dgk_54b">Click <uicontrol>Upload Framework</uicontrol> and choose a
            <term>framework</term> archive to upload.<note type="important" id="note_yd5_dgk_54b"
              ><term>Oxygen XML Web Author</term> does a validation check to make sure the uploaded
            framework archive contains the proper extension descriptor file
              (<filepath>*.framework</filepath>). The archive should contain exactly one folder.
            Otherwise, you will receive an error that the upload was rejected.</note><note
            id="note_ocj_mq3_cbc">It is possible to combine multiple frameworks in an archive. All
              <filepath>*.framework</filepath> descriptor files should be located next to each other
            in the top and only directory of the archive. </note></li>
        <li id="li_zd5_dgk_54b">
          <p id="p_a25_dgk_54b">Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> to upload the file.</p>
          <p id="p_b25_dgk_54b"><b>Step Result:</b> The <term>framework</term> should appear in the list on this
              <uicontrol>Frameworks</uicontrol> page. Uploaded frameworks appear with a light green
            highlight so that you can identify them easily.</p>
        </li>
        <li id="li_c25_dgk_54b">Once you are finished with all of your changes click the <uicontrol>Restart
            Server</uicontrol> button at the top of the <uicontrol>Frameworks</uicontrol> page.</li>
      </ol></p>
    <p id="p_d25_dgk_54b">Once a custom framework has been uploaded to your <term>Oxygen XML Web Author</term>
      deployment, whenever a file from that custom framework is opened in <ph keyref="product"/>,
      the reviewers will have access to the customizations made in that framework.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
