<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="cf-configure-publishing-containers">
    <title>Configuring Publishing Containers</title>
    <body>
    <p>The <i>Publishing Containers</i> are separated into two components:<ul id="ul_myl_xkk_wbc">
        <li><b>Task Executor Container</b> - Executes various tasks, such as building
          deliverables.</li>
        <li><b>Publishing Main Container</b> - Manages deliverables, the templates used by
          deliverables, and the builds associated with a deliverable.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p id="p_ifj_j4n_wbc">You can configure the containers by setting some properties to customize
      and optimize the behavior of the publishing and build processes according to your specific
      requirements.</p>
    <section id="section_jtm_plk_wbc">
      <title>Configuring the Task Executor Container</title>
      <p>For the Task Executor container, you can configure the following properties:</p>
      <p>
        <dl id="dl_ons_vjk_wbc">
          <dlentry>
            <dt>executor.service.ope.max.memory</dt>
            <dd>Specifies the maximum memory allocated for a single publishing build. Default value
              is <i>1024 MB</i>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>executor.service.validation.max.memory</dt>
            <dd>Specifies the maximum memory allocated for a single validation build. Default value
              is <i>200 MB</i>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>executor.service.parallel.publishing.builds</dt>
            <dd>Defines the maximum number of publishing builds that the application can execute
              simultaneously. This limits how many publishing processes can be handled at once,
              helping to manage server load and optimize resource usage. Default value is
              <i>2</i>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>executor.service.parallel.validation.builds</dt>
            <dd>Defines the maximum number of validation builds that the application can execute
              simultaneously. Controls how many validation processes can occur at the same time,
              ensuring efficient validation processing while balancing server performance. Default
              value is <i>5</i>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>executor.service.metrics.disk.store.period</dt>
            <dd>Determines how long (in days) the server should retain publishing build metrics on
              disk. This ensures that metrics for builds are stored for a limited time, preventing
              disk space overuse by automatically purging old data after the specified retention
              period. Default value is <i>30</i>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_x4t_qlk_wbc">
      <title>Configuring the Publishing Main Container</title>
      <p>For the Publishing Main container, you can configure the following properties:</p>
      <p>
        <dl id="dl_u55_zjk_wbc">
          <dlentry>
            <dt>publishing.service.deliverable.builds.number</dt>
            <dd>Sets the number of builds to retain for each deliverable. This helps manage disk
              space while maintaining only the most recent builds. Default value is <i>3</i>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>publishing.service.allow.automatic.builds</dt>
            <dd>Controls whether or not automatic builds (triggered by remote modifications or
              scheduled tasks) are allowed. Default value is <i>true</i>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>publising.service.check.remote.period</dt>
            <dd>The interval (in seconds) at which the system checks for remote changes. Default
              value is <i>60 seconds</i>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>publishing.service.start.build.remote.changes.period</dt>
            <dd>The delay (in minutes) before starting a build when remote changes are detected. If
              additional remote changes are detected during this period, the build is re-triggered.
              Default value is <i>3 minutes</i>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>publishing.service.start.build.remote.changes.max.period</dt>
            <dd>The delay (in minutes) before starting a build when remote changes are detected. If
              additional remote changes are detected during this period, the build is not
              re-triggered. Default value is <i>10 minutes</i>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>publishing.service.build.console.max.lines.numbe</dt>
            <dd>Specifies the maximum number of lines displayed in the console that shows the
              transformation progress. Default value is <i>1000 lines</i>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
    </section>
    </body>
</topic>
