<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="cf-docs-web-platform-connector">
    <title>Content Fusion Docs Web Platform Connector</title>
    <shortdesc>In the cloud version of Content Fusion, a "Content Fusion Docs Web Platform" connector is automatically created for each new project.</shortdesc>
    <body>
        <p>When you create a new project in the cloud version of Oxygen Content Fusion, the platform automatically generates a connector called "Content Fusion Docs Web Platform" for that project. This connector is designed to facilitate seamless integration between your project and the Content Fusion Docs Web Platform, enabling you to easily publish the output of your deliverables—we call these deployments—and collaborate on your documentation.</p>
        <p>While the connector is set up automatically for the project, you need to set up deliverables to publish using the connector.</p>
        <p>Deliverables with this connector set up will show a link on the latest successful build. You can share this link with others—the output is public.</p>
        <p><b>Key Points:</b></p>
        <ul>
            <li>The connector is created by default for every new project in the cloud environment.</li>
            <li>It provides a direct link between your project files and the web-based documentation platform.</li>
            <li>No manual configuration is required; the connector is ready to use as soon as the project is created.</li>
            <li>You can view and manage deployments published by this connector in the connectors or deliverables page.</li>
        </ul>
        <p><b>Benefits:</b></p>
        <ul>
            <li>Simplifies the process of publishing and sharing documentation.</li>
            <li>Ensures that all projects are immediately ready for web-based collaboration and publishing.</li>
        </ul>
        <note>This feature is specific to the cloud version of Content Fusion. In other deployment types, connectors need to be configured by the administrator.</note>
    </body>
</topic>
