<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="cf-enterprise-server">
  <title>Enterprise Server Solution</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Using your own Content Fusion Enterprise server</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Installing an Enterprise server</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Content Fusion Enterprise virtual machine</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>It is possible to use your own <ph keyref="cfEnterprise"/> server to store uploaded content.
      The information in this topic is meant to help system administrators install and configure
      your own Enterprise server.</p>
    <section id="the_two_types_of_server_hosting_solutions">
      <title>The Two Types of Server Hosting Solutions</title>
      <p>There are two types of server hosting solutions:<dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><ph keyref="cfEnterprise"/></dt>
            <dd>This solution allows you to host your own server to store content that is uploaded
              through the <ph keyref="product"/> connector add-on. With this model, you will be able
              to setup and configure your own server. This solution also allows you to <xref
                href="#cf-enterprise-server/using_custom_frameworks_with_oxygen_content_fusio"
                format="dita">upload custom frameworks</xref> so that all contributors will have
              access to them when reviewing content in <ph keyref="product"/>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><ph keyref="cfPublic"/></dt>
            <dd>This solution is a service where content that is uploaded through the <ph
                keyref="product"/> connector add-on is stored on a public server hosted by
                <term>Oxygen</term>. This solution allows you to try <ph keyref="product"/> for free
              but you cannot control the server configuration and your documents will be uploaded to
              a shared server (it is recommended that you use sample documents that do not contain
              sensitive information or ownership rights).</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl></p>
    </section>
    <section id="requirements">
      <title>Prerequisites</title>
      <p>An Enterprise server solution requires the following prerequisites:<ul>
          <li><xref
              href="https://my.vmware.com/en/web/vmware/info/slug/datacenter_cloud_infrastructure/vmware_vsphere/6_5"
              format="html" scope="external">VMware vSphere</xref> Virtual Manager</li>
          <li>4 GB of memory on the server</li>
          <!--<li><?oxy_comment_start author="Steven" timestamp="20180206T121757+0200" comment="Add a link to the buy page once it&apos;s done."?><b>Oxygen Content Fusion Enterprise</b> License<?oxy_comment_end?></li>-->
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section id="firewall_notes">
      <title>Firewall Notes</title>
      <p><?oxy_delete author="andreip1123" timestamp="20180308T120741+0000" content="Optionally, you may want the "?><?oxy_insert_start author="andreip1123" timestamp="20180308T121858+0000"?>The
          <?oxy_insert_end?><b>Content Fusion Enterprise
          V<?oxy_insert_start author="andreip1123" timestamp="20180308T120729+0000"?>irtual
          <?oxy_insert_end?>M<?oxy_insert_start author="andreip1123" timestamp="20180308T120732+0000"?>achine<?oxy_insert_end?></b>
        <?oxy_delete author="andreip1123" timestamp="20180308T120828+0000" content="to"?><?oxy_insert_start author="andreip1123" timestamp="20180308T120828+0000"?>should<?oxy_insert_end?>
        have the following ports accessible:<ul>
          <li><b>80<?oxy_insert_start author="andreip1123" timestamp="20180308T120546+0000"?>,<?oxy_insert_end?><?oxy_delete author="andreip1123" timestamp="20180308T120541+0000" content=" &amp;amp;"?>
              443</b> - For HTTP/HTTPS access to the main application.</li>
          <li><b>9080</b> - For access to the administration page (you may want to restrict access
            to only have this page available to certain computers).</li>
          <li><b>22</b> - For SSH access.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section id="downloading_the_content_fusion_enterprise_virtual">
      <title>Downloading the Oxygen Content Fusion Enterprise Virtual Machine Software</title>
      <p>To use your own server, you need to <xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/content_fusion/download_content_fusion.html" format="html"
          scope="external">download the <b>Oxygen Content Fusion Enterprise</b> virtual machine
          software</xref>. The download package includes the following:</p>
      <p>
        <ul>
          <li>An OVF file that defines the virtual machine.</li>
          <li>Several VMDK (virtual machine disk) files.</li>
          <li>A manifest (<filepath>.MF</filepath> file) that contains the signatures of the
            files.</li>
        </ul>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="importing_the_content_fusion_virtual_machine_soft">
      <title>Importing the Oxygen Content Fusion Virtual Machine Software</title>
      <p>To import the <b>Oxygen Content Fusion Enterprise</b> virtual machine software in VMware vSphere:<ol>
          <li>Start <i>VMware vSphere</i>.</li>
          <li>Select <uicontrol>File</uicontrol> / <uicontrol>Deploy OVF Template</uicontrol> and
            choose the OVF file.</li>
          <li>Select the <uicontrol>Power on after deployment</uicontrol> option in the final
            step.</li>
          <li>After powering on the virtual machine, click <uicontrol>Launch Virtual Machine
              Console</uicontrol>.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="configuring_content_fusion_using_web_interface">
      <title>Initial Command Line/SSH Access Configuration</title>
      <p>To configure the command line/SSH access to the VM, use the following procedure:<ol
          id="ol_f5c_dwg_t1b">
          <li>On the first start of the server, the VM console will display the IP address (you will
            need this), and the SSH access administrator user name and password (these will be
            changed). The fingerprint of the HTTPS self-signed certificate is also displayed. If you
            do not see this information, press <uicontrol><shortcut>Enter</shortcut></uicontrol> and
            it will be displayed.</li>
          <li>Login to the machine using the credentials displayed in step 1. You can do this either
            directly in the virtual machine console or by using SSH.</li>
          <li>After you login, you will be prompted to change the default password for the
            administration account. This password can be used to login to the VM using SSH or the VM
            console.</li>
          <li>Exit the console by typing <b>exit</b>.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="initial_oxygen_content_fusion_configuration_in_th">
      <title>Initial Oxygen Content Fusion Configuration</title>
      <p>To configure <ph keyref="product"/> on the initial start of the VM, use the following
        procedure:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Use the IP address shown in the VM console to access the web interface of <ph
            keyref="product"/>. The address should be
            <codeph>https://&lt;server-address>:9080</codeph>.<note>By default, <ph keyref="product"
            /> uses a self-signed certificate, so the browser will display a security warning.
            Continue (for example, if you are using Edge or Internet Explorer, click <b>Details</b>
            and then <b>Go on to the webpage</b>).</note></li>
        <li>Login using the following credentials:<ul>
            <li><b>user</b> = <i>fusion</i></li>
            <li><b>password</b> = <i>oxygenxml</i></li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Change the password.</li>
        <li>In the <uicontrol>General</uicontrol> tab, configure the <uicontrol>Domain
            Name</uicontrol> of the server. To properly configure the server, you should associate a
          domain name for this server in your <term>DNS</term>. You can also use the server IP
          address instead of the domain name. In this case, the server will run with several limitations:<ul>
            <li>The e-mail messages generated by the server are more likely to be considered as
              SPAM.</li>
            <li>HTTPS support cannot be enabled.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>In the <uicontrol>License</uicontrol> tab, request a new <b>trial</b> license (or
          configure it if you already have a license key).</li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    <section id="configuring_oxygen_xml_editorauthor_to_connect_to">
      <title>Configuring Oxygen XML Editor/Author to Connect to Your Enterprise Server</title>
      <p>All <b>Content Authors</b> in your organization that will be uploading tasks will need to
        configure <term>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</term> to connect to your Enterprise server. You
        need to provide them with your Enterprise server URL and then each of them will need to
        follow the procedure found in: <xref
          href="connect-to-enterprise-server.dita#connect-to-enterprise-server"/>. Alternatively, if
        you want to impose the server URL for all <b>Content Authors</b> so that they do not need to
        do any manual configuration, continue reading to learn how to use a properties file to
        impose the Enterprise server address.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="configuring_a_properties_file_to_instruct_oxygen_">
      <title>Configuring a Properties File to Instruct Oxygen XML Editor/Author to Connect to Your
        Enterprise Server</title>
      <p>You can create a properties file to specify the address of your Enterprise server. This
        server address will then be imposed when <term>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</term> connects to
        the server and the <b>Content Authors</b> that will be uploading tasks will not need to do
        any manual configuration. When they click <uicontrol>Connect</uicontrol>, your server
        address will be imposed and they will not have the ability to change it. To create the
        properties file, use this procedure:<ol>
          <li>Create a properties file named <filepath>oxygenContentFusion.properties</filepath>
            with the following content:<p>
              <codeblock outputclass="language-ini">server=[on-premise_server_address]</codeblock>
            </p><p>where <b>[on-premise_server_address]</b> is the URL of your on-premise server
              (for example, <filepath>http://myserver.com:8080</filepath>).</p></li>
          <li>Save this file in <term>Oxygen's</term> default preferences directory. Depending on
            the platform and product you are using, this file is located in the following
              directories:<p>For <term>Oxygen XML Editor</term>:<ul>
                <li><b>Windows</b> -
                    <filepath>[user-home-folder]\AppData\Roaming\com.oxygenxml</filepath></li>
                <li><b>OS X</b> -
                    <filepath>[user-home-folder]\Library\Preferences\com.oxygenxml</filepath></li>
                <li><b>Linux</b> - <filepath>[user-home-folder]\.com.oxygenxml</filepath></li>
              </ul></p><p>For <term>Oxygen XML Author</term>:<ul>
                <li><b>Windows</b> -
                    <filepath>[user-home-folder]\AppData\Roaming\com.oxygenxml.author</filepath></li>
                <li><b>OS X</b> -
                    <filepath>[user-home-folder]\Library\Preferences\com.oxygenxml.author</filepath></li>
                <li><b>Linux</b> -
                  <filepath>[user-home-folder]\.com.oxygenxml.author</filepath></li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>Each <b>Content Author</b> needs to <xref
              href="installing_the_content_fusion_plugin.dita#installing_the_content_fusion_plugin"
              >install the <uicontrol>Oxygen Content Fusion Connector</uicontrol> add-on</xref> in
              <term>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</term>, then open the <xref
              href="cf_task_manager_view.dita#cf_task_manager_view">task management view</xref> and
            click <uicontrol>Connect</uicontrol>.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="using_custom_frameworks_with_oxygen_content_fusio">
      <title>Using Custom Frameworks with Oxygen Content Fusion</title>
      <p id="cf-configuration-page">One of the advantages of using the <ph keyref="cfEnterprise"/>
        server solution is that it can be configured to support any DITA specialization or XML
        language. This must be done by someone who has access to customize <term>Oxygen XML Web
          Author</term> (for example, a server administrator).</p>
      <p>For information about how to create, configure, reuse, test, and upload custom frameworks,
        see Integrating Web Author with Your Content by Creating Custom Frameworks.</p>
      <p>To upload a custom <term>framework</term> to your <term>Oxygen XML Web Author</term>
        deployment, follow this procedure:<ol id="upload-framework-ol">
          <li>Go to your <xref href="cf-enterprise-configuration.dita#cf-enterprise-configuration"
              >Content Fusion Enterprise Administration Page</xref>.</li>
          <li>In the <uicontrol>Web Author</uicontrol> tab, click <uicontrol>Manage Web
              Author</uicontrol>. This will open the <term>Oxygen XML Web Author</term>
            <uicontrol>Administration</uicontrol> page.</li>
          <li>Select <uicontrol>Frameworks</uicontrol>.</li>
          <li>Click <uicontrol>Upload Framework</uicontrol> and choose a <term>framework</term>
            archive to upload.<note type="important"><term>Oxygen XML Web Author</term> does a
              validation check to make sure the uploaded framework archive contains the proper
              extension descriptor file (<filepath>*.framework</filepath>). The archive should
              contain exactly one folder. Otherwise you will receive an error that the upload was
              rejected.</note></li>
          <li>Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> to upload the file.<p><b>Result:</b> The
                <term>framework</term> should appear in the list on this
                <uicontrol>Frameworks</uicontrol> page. Uploaded frameworks appear with a light
              green highlight so that you can identify them easily.</p></li>
          <li>Once you are finished with all of your changes, restart the server.</li>
        </ol></p>
      <p>Once a custom framework has been uploaded to your <term>Oxygen XML Web Author</term>
        deployment, whenever a file from that custom framework is opened in <ph keyref="product"/>,
        the reviewers will have access to the customizations made in that framework.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>

