<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="cf-enterprise-configuration">
  <title>Content Fusion Enterprise Administration Page</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Content Fusion Enterprise - Administration Page</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Configuring an Enterprise server</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_qf5_dgk_54b">The <ph keyref="cfEnterprise"/> solution includes an <uicontrol>Administration
        Page</uicontrol> where you can configure various options.</p>
    <section id="section_hqq_dwg_t1b">
      <title> Signing in to the Administration Page</title>
      <p id="p_rf5_dgk_54b">
        <ol id="ol_g5c_dwg_t1b">
          <li id="li_sf5_dgk_54b">Use the IP address shown in the VM console to access the web
            interface of <ph keyref="product"/>. The address should be
              <codeph>https://&lt;server-address>:9080</codeph>.<note id="note_tf5_dgk_54b">By
              default, <ph keyref="product"/> uses a self-signed certificate. If you did not change
              it, the browser will display a security warning. Continue (for example, if you are
              using Edge, click <b>Details</b> and then <b>Go on to the webpage</b>).</note></li>
          <li id="li_uf5_dgk_54b">Log in with the credentials you <xref
              href="cf-enterprise-server.dita#cf-enterprise-server">configured in the initial
              setup</xref>.</li>
        </ol>
        <note id="note_j4b_xqg_m4b" type="tip">For information about changing the password, see
            <xref href="cf-change-admin-password.dita"/>.</note>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="general_tab">
      <title>General Tab</title>
      <p id="p_vf5_dgk_54b">This tab contains the following options:</p>
      <p id="p_wf5_dgk_54b">
        <dl id="dl_xf5_dgk_54b">
          <dlentry id="dlentry_yf5_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Server Address</dt>
            <dd>Displays the IP address or DNS name of your server and you can change it.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_zf5_dgk_54b">
            <dt>HTTPS enabled for Content Fusion</dt>
            <dd>
              <p id="p_ag5_dgk_54b">Select this option to enable HTTPS protocol for your users. When
                you select this checkbox, it will expand and provide options to upload your
                certificate and private key in PEM format. The key should be unencrypted.</p>
              <p id="p_bg5_dgk_54b">After you upload your certificate, the information in the displayed TLS certificate
                table will be updated accordingly.<note id="note_cg5_dgk_54b">Make sure that the certificate file you
                  upload includes any intermediate certificates that your HTTPS certificate depends
                  on. The certificates should be concatenated and the certificate for your domain
                  should be included first.</note></p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="task-sharing-behavior">
            <dt>Task sharing behavior (toggle option)</dt>
            <dd>
              <p id="p_dg5_dgk_54b">
                <dl id="dl_eg5_dgk_54b">
                  <dlentry id="dlentry_fg5_dgk_54b">
                    <dt>Tasks can be shared publicly (default)</dt>
                    <dd>If selected, any registered user can access the task by using its link. When
                      this option is selected, it also means that an option named <xref
                        href="sharing_tasks_with_reviewers.dita#sharing_tasks_with_reviewers/dlentry_atb_vjg_zxb"
                          ><uicontrol>Anyone who opens the link is automatically granted access as a
                          Reviewer</uicontrol></xref> is available in the <uicontrol>Sharing
                        settings</uicontrol> dialog box. Selecting that option means that even
                      non-registered users will automatically be granted access when they use the
                      task link.</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry id="specified-collaborators">
                    <dt>Tasks can only be accessed by specified collaborators</dt>
                    <dd>If selected, all tasks have restricted access and task owners cannot make
                      them public. Also, the <xref
                        href="sharing_tasks_with_reviewers.dita#sharing_tasks_with_reviewers/dlentry_atb_vjg_zxb"
                          ><uicontrol>Anyone who opens the link is automatically granted access as a
                          Reviewer</uicontrol></xref> option is NOT available in the
                        <uicontrol>Sharing settings</uicontrol> page when this option is
                      selected.</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                </dl>
              </p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Editing and Publishing Security</dt>
            <dd>Use this option to configure a list of trusted hosts. Each trusted host needs to be
              listed on a separate line.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
      <p id="p_gg5_dgk_54b">Click <uicontrol>Save</uicontrol> to apply your changes and then restart the browser.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="license_tab">
      <title>License Tab</title>
      <p id="p_hg5_dgk_54b">If a license key has been activated on your server, this tab simply contains a
          <uicontrol>Manage License</uicontrol> button. Clicking this button opens a <xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-editor/topics/servlet-report-page.html"
          format="html" scope="external">license management and statistics page</xref>.</p>
      <p id="p_ig5_dgk_54b">If a license key has not been activated, you have two options:<ul id="ul_jg5_dgk_54b">
          <li id="li_kg5_dgk_54b">If you have already received a license key, choose the <uicontrol>Already have a
              license key</uicontrol> option, paste your license key in the text field and click
              <uicontrol>Activate</uicontrol>.</li>
          <li id="li_lg5_dgk_54b">Otherwise, choose the <uicontrol>Request a trial license key</uicontrol> option and
            complete the request form.</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p>If you want to replace the current license key:<ol id="ul_t24_zbr_l5b">
          <li>Choose <uicontrol>Manage license</uicontrol>.</li>
          <li>On the newly opened page, choose <uicontrol>Replace/Remove license key</uicontrol>,
            then choose <uicontrol>Replace</uicontrol>.</li>
          <li>Paste your license key and choose <uicontrol>Register/Activate</uicontrol>.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_qnx_bbn_zxb">
      <title>Users Management Tab</title>
      <p id="p_rnx_bbn_zxb">This tab can be used to assign user roles that determine the
        functionality they have access to when working with projects in Content Fusion. You can use
        the drop-down menu to the right of each user to assign one of two roles:<ul
          id="ul_rlb_rbn_zxb">
          <li id="li_slb_rbn_zxb"><b>SME (Subject Matter Expert/Reviewer)</b> - This role allows the
            user to access review tasks assigned to them and to create review tasks from scratch.
            This role uses a floating license model.</li>
          <li id="li_tlb_rbn_zxb"><b>Author</b> - In addition to the features that an SME has access
            to, Authors can access all projects and are able to create review tasks inside projects,
            as well as other functionality that is restricted from an SME. This role uses a
            named-user license model.</li>
        </ul>The amount of users that can be assigned to each role is dependent upon the limits
        imposed by the license key. You can buy additional users when renewing the subscription or
        add Authors to an existing subscription.</p>
      <p>For more details, see <xref href="users-management.dita"/>.</p>
      <p id="p_dlz_p11_1bc">To delete a user, select <uicontrol>Delete user</uicontrol> from the
        drop-down menu to the right of the user.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_z3f_j31_lwb">
      <title>Git Accounts Tab</title>
      <p id="p_ajf_j31_lwb">This tab can be used to configure Git accounts that are used when
        projects are created in <b>Content Fusion</b> to connect to external Git services. The tab
        has contains the following options:</p>
      <p id="p_kkd_v31_lwb">
        <dl id="dl_vfj_v31_lwb">
          <dlentry id="dlentry_wfj_v31_lwb">
            <dt>Add account</dt>
            <dd>Clicking the <uicontrol>Add account</uicontrol> button opens a dialog box where you
              can enter the <uicontrol>Account name</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Account
              user</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Account password</uicontrol>, and the <uicontrol>Server
                URL</uicontrol>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_wn1_2j1_lwb">
            <dt>Edit / Delete account</dt>
            <dd>Once an account has been added, it is listed in this tab and options to
                <uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol> or <uicontrol>Delete account</uicontrol> are available
              for each added account.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="mail_tab">
      <title>Mail Tab</title>
      <p id="p_mg5_dgk_54b">This tab contains the following options:</p>
      <p id="p_ng5_dgk_54b">
        <dl id="dl_og5_dgk_54b">
          <dlentry id="dlentry_pg5_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Mail configuration</dt>
            <dd>Enter your email server settings in this section.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_sg5_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Sender email address</dt>
            <dd>This is the email address that will be listed as the sender when emails are sent by
                <b>Content Fusion</b> to users. The default address is:
                <codeph>noreply@content-fusion-server-address</codeph>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_qg5_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Use STARTTLS</dt>
            <dd>Select this option if your email server is configured to use STARTTLS.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_rg5_dgk_54b">
            <dt>SSL on connection</dt>
            <dd>Select this option if your email server accepts SSL connections and specify the
              port.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
      <p id="p_tg5_dgk_54b">Click <uicontrol>Save</uicontrol> to apply your changes.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="authentication_tab">
      <title>Authentication Tab</title>
      <p id="p_ug5_dgk_54b">This tab contains the following option:</p>
      <p id="p_vg5_dgk_54b">
        <dl id="dl_wg5_dgk_54b">
          <dlentry id="LDAP-Auth">
            <dt>Use LDAP Authentication</dt>
            <dd>Select this option is you want to use your own LDAP configuration instead of the
              built-in authentication. When you select this checkbox, it will expand and provide
              options to configure the details of your LDAP authentication.<note
                id="note_xg5_dgk_54b">If your LDAP server uses a self-signed SSL certificate, select
                the <uicontrol>Use SSL</uicontrol> option and choose your certificate.</note><note
                type="tip" id="note_yg5_dgk_54b">It is also possible to configure your <ph
                  keyref="cfEnterprise"/> to accept <xref href="cf-google-auth.dita">Google</xref>
                or <xref href="cf-github-auth.dita">GitHub authentication</xref>.</note><p
                id="p_zg5_dgk_54b">
                <dl id="dl_ah5_dgk_54b">
                  <dlentry id="dlentry_bh5_dgk_54b">
                    <dt>Allow both LDAP accounts and standard email accounts</dt>
                    <dd>If this option is not selected, users will only be able to log in using
                      their LDAP credentials. If you select this option, users will be able to log
                      in using their LDAP credentials or sign up using their email address.</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                </dl>
              </p></dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
      <p id="p_ch5_dgk_54b">Click <uicontrol>Save</uicontrol> to apply your changes.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="web_author_tab">
      <title>Web Author Tab</title>
      <p id="p_dh5_dgk_54b">This tab contains a <uicontrol>Manage Web Author</uicontrol> button. Clicking this button
        opens the <b>Oxygen XML Web Author</b>
        <uicontrol>Administration Page</uicontrol>. This page provides options for configuring the
        visual editor that is used in <ph keyref="product"/>. For example, you can <xref
          href="cf-custom-frameworks.dita#cf-custom-frameworks">upload your own custom
          frameworks</xref> using this page.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="maintenance">
      <title>Maintenance Tab</title>
      <p id="p_eh5_dgk_54b">This tab contains the following sections and options:</p>
      <p id="p_fh5_dgk_54b">
        <dl id="dl_gh5_dgk_54b">
          <dlentry id="dlentry_hh5_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Maintenance Mode</dt>
            <dd>Click the <uicontrol>Enable Maintenance Mode</uicontrol> button to enable a
              maintenance mode that prevents users from accessing the server during this time. This
              allows you to perform maintenance tasks without the risk of corrupting data. Users
              will see a message in the <b>Content Fusion</b> browser interface letting them know
              that the site is temporarily down for maintenance purposes.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_ih5_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Announcement Banner</dt>
            <dd>Click the <uicontrol>Configure Message</uicontrol> if you want to display a message
              at the topic of each <b>Content Fusion</b> page. This is helpful if you need to post
              announcements (such as announcing changes, maintenance schedules, or upgrade
              information).</dd>
            <dd>To disable the message, simply configure the message with empty content.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_jh5_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Database</dt>
            <dd><b>Content Fusion</b> stores user profiles and task metadata in a database that is
              backed up and rotated hourly, daily, and weekly. <b>Content Fusion</b> stores database
              backups for one month. In this section, you can see a list of the latest backups and
              you have access to the following options:<ul id="ul_kh5_dgk_54b">
                <li id="li_lh5_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>Create Database Backup</uicontrol> - Click this button to create a
                  new backup of the database. Prior to clicking that button, you can also use the
                    <uicontrol>Custom backup name</uicontrol> text field to specify a particular
                  name, useful for identifying the newly created backup.</li>
                <li id="li_mh5_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>Restore Database from Backup</uicontrol> - You can select a
                  particular backup listed in this section and then click the <uicontrol>Restore
                    Database from Backup</uicontrol> button to restore the database to that selected
                  backup.</li>
              </ul><note id="note_nh5_dgk_54b">To create a full <b>Content Fusion</b> backup that contains task metadata,
                task files, user profiles, and configuration information, see <xref
                  href="cf-enterprise-backups.dita#cf-enterprise-backups"/>.</note></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="logs">
            <dt>Logs</dt>
            <dd>Click the <uicontrol>Show Logs</uicontrol> button to open a page where you can view
              or download server logs.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="cf-security.dita"/>
  </related-links>
</topic>
