<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="cf-netlify-connector">
  <title>Publishing Content to Netlify</title>
  <body>
    <p>The Netlify connector facilitates publishing deliverable build outputs to the designated
      Netlify Site. </p>
    <section id="section_ub3_1dm_2bc">
      <title>Requirements</title>
      <p>To publish content to a Netlify Site, you must have the following:</p>
      <ul id="ul_lcs_srl_2bc">
        <li>A Netlify account.</li>
        <li>An existing Netlify Site configured. For more details, refer to the Netlify's
          <xref href="https://docs.netlify.com/welcome/add-new-site/" format="html"
            scope="external">Add new site</xref> topic.</li>
        <li>A Personal Access Token associated with your Netlify account. For more details,
          refer to the Netlify's <xref
            href="https://docs.netlify.com/api/get-started/#authentication"
            format="html" scope="external">Personal Access Token</xref> topic.</li>
      </ul>
      <p>For additional information, consult the <xref href="https://docs.netlify.com/"
          format="html" scope="external">Netlify documentation</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_k3t_ydm_2bc">
      <title>Define the Connector</title>
      <p>To configure a Netlify connector, the following fields must be provided:<dl
          id="dl_tcx_wbm_2bc">
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Connector Name</dt>
            <dd>The name of the connector.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Site ID</dt>
            <dd>The unique identifier associated with your Netlify Site.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Personal Access Token</dt>
            <dd>A security token used for authenticating your Netlify account.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl></p>
    </section>
    <section id="select_the_netlify_connector_in_deliverable_setti">
      <title>Select the Netlify Connector in the Deliverables Page</title>
      <p>To publish the output of a deliverable to Netlify, follow these steps: <ol
          id="ol_bts_f2m_2bc">
          <li>After configuring the Netlify connector, navigate to the
              <uicontrol>Deliverables</uicontrol> page, then either edit an existing deliverable or
            create a new one.</li>
          <li id="li_jd2_xv5_kbc">In the resulting configuration page, select the <uicontrol>Upload
              output using a publishing connector</uicontrol> option.</li>
          <li>Use the drop-down list below that option to select the Netlify connector that you
            previously defined.</li>
          <li id="li_akt_1w5_kbc">Click <uicontrol>Save</uicontrol> at the bottom of the
            configuration page.</li>
          <li>Begin the Deliverable build process. Upon completion, the build output will be
            published to the configured Netlify Site.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
