<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="cf-new-file-from-interface">
  <title>Creating Files from the Browser Interface</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Content Author Guide<indexterm>Create new files</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Create new files from the browser</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_fst_dgk_54b">For any task that you are the owner (tasks you created or were assigned as an owner), you
      have the ability to create a new file from a list of templates directly in the Content Fusion
      browser interface. This is done from the <i>Task Details</i> page and the newly created file
      will automatically be added to the current task.</p>
    <p id="p_gst_dgk_54b">To create a new file from the browser interface, follow these steps:<ol id="ol_iqv_bkx_4jb">
        <li id="li_hst_dgk_54b">Open the particular task in the <xref
            href="content_fusion_task_details.dita#content_fusion_task_details/section-task-details-page-owner"
              ><i>Task Details</i> page</xref>.</li>
        <li id="li_ist_dgk_54b">
          <p id="p_jst_dgk_54b">Click the <uicontrol>NEW FILE</uicontrol> button.</p>
          <p id="p_kst_dgk_54b"><b>Step Result:</b> This opens a dialog box where you can select a document template to
            use as a starting point for the new file.</p>
        </li>
        <li id="li_lst_dgk_54b">Select an appropriate template, choose a file name in the text field at the bottom, and
          click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol>.<p id="p_mst_dgk_54b"><b>Step Result:</b> The new file is opened in the <xref
              href="making_changes_to_uploaded_files.dita">visual editor page</xref> with some of
            the XML structure already added.</p></li>
        <li id="li_nst_dgk_54b">Add content to the file. For information about the editing features,
          see the <xref href="making_changes_to_uploaded_files.dita"/> topic. For more advanced
          information about using the visual editor, see the <xref
            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-webauthor/topics/webauthor-editing-docs.html"
            format="html" scope="external">Editing Documents section</xref> of the <term>Oxygen XML
            Web Author</term> online user manual.<note id="note_ost_dgk_54b">Tasks that are created
            in the browser have the <i>change tracking</i> feature disabled by default. However, the
            task owner can force change tracking to be enabled by selecting the <uicontrol>Enforce
              change tracking</uicontrol> option from the <uicontrol>Settings</uicontrol> tab in the
              <xref
              href="content_fusion_task_details.dita#content_fusion_task_details/section-task-details-page-owner"
                ><i>Task Details</i> page</xref>.</note></li>
      </ol></p>
  </body>
</topic>
