<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="cf-organization-members">
    <title>Organization Members Management</title>
    <body>
        <section id="section_jtz_r2p_xfc">
            <title>Overview</title>
            <p>The <b>Members</b> page in Content Fusion allows organization administrators to
        manage user access, assign roles, and allocate licenses within their organization. This page
        provides a centralized interface for viewing and controlling all members, their roles, and
        license usage.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_otz_r2p_xfc">
            <title>License Allocation</title>
            <p>At the top of the page, you can view how your license seats are allocated. Two
                progress bars display the current usage of your organization's licenses:</p>
      <p id="p_z1x_gjs_xfc">
        <dl id="dl_qtz_r2p_xfc">
          <dlentry id="dlentry_zbx_gjs_xfc">
            <dt>Author licenses</dt>
            <dd>Shows the number of Author licenses used out of the total available</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_acx_gjs_xfc">
            <dt>Subject-Matter Expert licenses</dt>
            <dd>Shows the number of Subject-Matter Expert licenses used out of the total
              available</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
            <p>This helps administrators monitor license consumption and plan for future needs.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_rtz_r2p_xfc">
            <title>Pending Invitations</title>
            <p>This section allows you to invite new members to your organization.</p>
      <p id="p_p2f_hjs_xfc">
        <dl id="dl_stz_r2p_xfc">
          <dlentry id="dlentry_sff_hjs_xfc">
            <dt>Email address field</dt>
            <dd>Enter the email address of the person you wish to invite.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_tff_hjs_xfc">
            <dt>Role selection</dt>
            <dd>Choose the user role (e.g., Subject-Matter Expert) for the invitee.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_uff_hjs_xfc">
            <dt>Add button</dt>
            <dd>Click to send the invitation.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
            <p><uicontrol>Pending invitations</uicontrol> are listed below the input fields,
                showing:</p>
            <ul id="ul_utz_r2p_xfc">
                <li>The invitee’s email address</li>
                <li>The assigned user role</li>
                <li>The option to cancel the invitation (close button)</li>
            </ul>
            <p>When inviting an user, you need to specify what role they will have. A license seat
                is automatically allocated when you invite the user even before the user signs up in
                the organization.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_vtz_r2p_xfc">
            <title>Members List</title>
            <p>This section displays all current members of the organization, including the
                following details:</p>
      <p id="p_rz4_hjs_xfc">
        <dl id="dl_xtz_r2p_xfc">
          <dlentry id="dlentry_r1p_hjs_xfc">
            <dt>Name</dt>
            <dd>The member’s name and email address.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_s1p_hjs_xfc">
            <dt>Org-level role</dt>
            <dd>The member’s role at the organization level (e.g., Admin, Member).</dd>
            <dd>An Administrator has access to the organization management page and can perform
              various actions such as assigning other administrators, managing organization members,
              or managing the subscription.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_t1p_hjs_xfc">
            <dt>User role</dt>
            <dd>The member’s <xref href="platform-user-roles.dita">role within the platform</xref>
              (e.g., Author, Subject-Matter Expert).</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_u1p_hjs_xfc">
            <dt>Active</dt>
            <dd>Indicates whether the user is currently active. <p id="p_v1p_hjs_xfc">Inactive users
                cannot log in, do not count against license seat limits, but their data remains
                intact. An administrator can reactivate them at any time.</p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
            <p>The following actions are available:</p>
      <p id="p_wq1_3js_xfc">
        <dl id="dl_b5z_r2p_xfc">
          <dlentry id="dlentry_ms1_3js_xfc">
            <dt>Change Roles</dt>
            <dd>Use the dropdown menus to change a member’s organization-level role or user
              role.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_ns1_3js_xfc">
            <dt>Deactivate/Activate</dt>
            <dd>Use the checkbox to activate or deactivate a member’s account. <ul>
                <li><b>When a user account is deactivated:</b>
                  <ul>
                    <li>The user is immediately logged out and can no longer access the application,
                      including the web interface, desktop app, or any connected tools.</li>
                    <li>The user will not receive any email notifications, even if there is activity
                      on tasks or projects they previously contributed to.</li>
                    <li>The user cannot be assigned to new projects or tasks while deactivated.</li>
                    <li>Their name will appear in the members list and other relevant areas of the
                      interface with the label <b>(Inactive)</b> to indicate their status.</li>
                    <li>The license seat previously allocated to the user becomes available for
                      reassignment to another member.</li>
                    <li>All user data, contributions, and history remain intact and visible to other
                      members, but the user cannot interact with the system until reactivated.</li>
                  </ul>
                </li>
                <li><b>Reactivating a user account:</b>
                  <ul>
                    <li>An administrator can reactivate a deactivated account at any time using the
                      same checkbox.</li>
                    <li>Once reactivated, the user regains access to the application and all
                      previous permissions and assignments are restored.</li>
                    <li>The user will resume receiving notifications and can be assigned to new
                      projects or tasks. </li>
                  </ul></li>
              </ul><p><b>Note:</b> Deactivation is a reversible action. It is recommended for
                temporarily suspending access without deleting user data or history.</p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_os1_3js_xfc">
            <dt>More Options</dt>
            <dd>Click the three-dot menu for additional actions <p id="p_ezf_kjs_xfc">
                <dl id="dl_iyp_dfp_xfc">
                  <dlentry id="dlentry_ps1_3js_xfc">
                    <dt>Anonymize user</dt>
                    <dd>This action removes user data. It is irreversible and can only be performed
                      on users who are already inactive.<note id="note_my3_b3p_xfc"><ph
                          keyref="product"/> anonymizes the user data stored in the database, but
                        does not anonymize data stored in Git repositories (both stored internally
                        by Content Fusion and linked repositories).</note></dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry id="dlentry_qs1_3js_xfc">
                    <dt>Delete user</dt>
                    <dd>This action permanently removes the user from the system.</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                </dl>
              </p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
