<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="cf-publishing-connectors">
  <title>Publishing Connectors</title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_ush_lxk_3bc">The publishing <uicontrol>Connectors</uicontrol> page shows the publishing
      connectors that are defined for a project. To reach the page, go to
        <uicontrol>Deliverables</uicontrol> (found at the bottom of the left navigation stripe when
      inside a project), then click <uicontrol>Connectors</uicontrol> from the left stripe.</p>
    <section id="section_sdh_4tx_cgc" product="fusion">
      <title>Content Fusion Connectors</title>
      <p id="p_utk_q1q_bgc">A Content Fusion connector is associated with a deliverable, enabling
        the publishing for the deliverable's build outputs through the configured connector. Content
        Fusion offers support for the following connector types:</p>
      <ul id="ul_vsh_lxk_3bc">
        <li id="li_rh3_ptx_cgc"><xref
            href="https://oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-content-fusion/topics/cf-amazon-s3-connector.html"
            format="html" scope="external"><uicontrol>Amazon S3</uicontrol></xref></li>
        <li id="li_sh3_ptx_cgc"><xref
            href="https://oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-content-fusion/topics/cf-netlify-connector.html"
            format="html" scope="external"><uicontrol>Netlify</uicontrol></xref></li>
        <li id="li_th3_ptx_cgc"><xref
            href="https://oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-content-fusion/topics/cf-sftp-connector.html"
            format="html" scope="external"><uicontrol>SFTP Server</uicontrol></xref></li>
        <li id="li_khq_4sx_cgc"><uicontrol>Content Fusion Docs Web Platform</uicontrol> - This is a
          built-in connector that deploys the output to a web platform that is accessible publicly.
          When you create a new project, Content Fusion automatically generates this connector for
          that project. For this connector, you can click the <uicontrol>View
            deployments</uicontrol> button to see a pop-up window with the deployment builds for
          this connector. Each deployment includes a link to open the output for the latest
          successful build. You can share this link with others since the output is public.</li>
      </ul>
      <p id="p_xsh_lxk_3bc">To create a new connector, click the <uicontrol>New
          Connector</uicontrol> button located in the top-right corner of the page. Then, select the
        desired connector type and fill in the necessary fields corresponding to the chosen
        connector type in the resulting dialog box.</p>
      <p id="p_ysh_lxk_3bc">You can click the ellipsis (3 vertical dots) to the right of the
        particular connector to reveal actions to <xref href="cf-projects-deliverables.dita"
            ><uicontrol>View deliverables</uicontrol> for the connector</xref>,
          <uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol> it, or <uicontrol>Delete</uicontrol> it.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_dj5_qtx_cgc" product="fusion-cloud">
      <title>Content Fusion Docs Web Platform</title>
      <p id="p_qvc_1bm_cgc">When you create a new project, Content Fusion automatically generates a
        publishing connector named <uicontrol>Content Fusion Docs Web Platform</uicontrol> for that
        project. This connector enables you to publish the output of your deliverables using a
        built-in publishing connector that deploys the output to a web platform that is accessible
        publicly. This feature simplifies the process of publishing and sharing documentation and
        ensures that all projects are immediately ready for web-based collaboration and
        publishing.</p>
      <p id="p_rvc_1bm_cgc">While the connector is set up automatically for the project, you need to
          <xref href="cf-projects-deliverables.dita#cf-projects-deliverables/section_tfl_xpp_zxb"
          >set up deliverables</xref> to publish output using the connector.</p>
      <p id="p_qh5_q5x_cgc">In the <uicontrol>Connectors</uicontrol> page, to the right of the
          <uicontrol>Content Fusion Docs Web Platform</uicontrol> connector, you can click the
          <uicontrol>View deployments</uicontrol> button to see a pop-up window with the deployment
        builds for this connector. Each deployment includes a link to open the output for the latest
        successful build. You can share this link with others since the output is public.</p>
      <p id="p_f52_x5x_cgc">Also, you can click the ellipsis (3 vertical dots) to the right of the
        connector to reveal actions to <xref href="cf-projects-deliverables.dita"><uicontrol>View
            deliverables</uicontrol> for the connector</xref> or <uicontrol>Delete</uicontrol>
        it.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
