<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="cf-projects-publishing-execution-status">
  <title>Publishing Execution Status</title>
  <body>
    <p>The <uicontrol>Execution Status</uicontrol> page displays information about the status of
      deliverables with builds that are pending or in progress. You also have the ability to stop
      builds that are in progress from this page. To reach the page, go to
        <uicontrol>Deliverables</uicontrol> (found at the bottom of the left navigation stripe when
      inside a project), then click <uicontrol>Execution Status</uicontrol> from the left
        stripe.<note id="note_w4v_1vx_5cc">When a deliverable build is complete or if it is manually
        stopped by a user, its execution details will remain in the table. These details will stay
        visible until the <uicontrol>Execution Status</uicontrol> page is refreshed.</note></p>
    <section id="section_kxh_hsg_tcc">
      <title>Execution Status Information</title>
      <p id="p_xbb_ck4_5cc">While a deliverable build is processing (or is in a pending state), the
          <uicontrol>Execution Status</uicontrol> page provides the following information:</p>
      <p id="p_wg2_tk4_5cc">
        <ul id="ul_fpf_tk4_5cc">
          <li id="li_gpf_tk4_5cc"><uicontrol>Build</uicontrol> - The id of the build, relative to
            the deliverable that started it.</li>
          <li id="li_hpf_tk4_5cc"><uicontrol>Name</uicontrol> - The name of the deliverable that
            started the build.</li>
          <li id="li_ipf_tk4_5cc"><uicontrol>Status</uicontrol> - The current status of the build .
            You can hover over the symbol in this column to see what the status symbol means.</li>
          <li id="li_jpf_tk4_5cc"><uicontrol>Queued</uicontrol> - The amount of time the build spent
            in the queue.</li>
          <li id="li_brb_yk4_5cc"><uicontrol>Duration</uicontrol> - The amount of time the build
            spent processing.</li>
          <li id="li_w42_yk4_5cc"><uicontrol>Actions</uicontrol> - You can click the
              <uicontrol>Stop</uicontrol> button in this column to stop a particular build.</li>
        </ul>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_cp2_bzx_5cc">
      <title>Build Status</title>
      <p>The status of a deliverable build displayed in the page can be:</p>
    </section>
    <p>
      <ul id="ul_u5t_m1y_5cc">
        <li><uicontrol>Pending</uicontrol> - The build is waiting in a queue and has not yet started
          its execution.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Running</uicontrol> - The build has started its execution. If there were
          previous successful builds for that deliverable, you can hover over the build progress bar
          to check the <b>Estimated remaining time</b>.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Finished</uicontrol> - The build was successful.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Failed</uicontrol> - The build failed.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Stopped</uicontrol> - The build was manually stopped before it could finish
          executing.</li>
      </ul>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
