<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="cf-projects-workspace_changes_view">
  <title>Project Changes View</title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_xwv_jrz_vbc">The <uicontrol>Changes</uicontrol> view displays all the files that have
      been changed in the workspace. It contains two tabs (<uicontrol>Made by you</uicontrol> and
        <uicontrol>History</uicontrol>).</p>
    <p id="p_x5c_mfm_fgc">The <uicontrol>Made by you</uicontrol> tab displays all the changes you
      have made and provides two main options for your changes: <ul id="ul_ayv_hrv_jfc">
        <li id="li_y5c_mfm_fgc"><uicontrol>Commit</uicontrol> - Allows you to commit your changes to
          the project. </li>
        <li id="li_z5c_mfm_fgc"><uicontrol>New Review Task</uicontrol> - Allows you to create a
          review task that contains all your current changes so that others can review them before
          integration. </li>
      </ul></p>
    <p id="p_ncf_trz_vbc">In the list of files, you can click on a file to see a comparison (diff)
      of the changes. The version on the left shows the current workspace version while the version
      on the right shows the current repository version.</p>
    <p id="p_pww_5rz_vbc">A contextual menu can be invoked by clicking the 3 vertical dots
      (ellipsis) next to a particular file when hovering over it and the following actions are
        available:<ul id="ul_cvw_fsz_vbc">
        <li id="li_dvw_fsz_vbc"><uicontrol>Open file</uicontrol> - Opens the latest editable
          workspace version of the file in the editor.</li>
        <li id="li_ys5_hsz_vbc"><uicontrol>Discard changes</uicontrol> - Discards any changes you
          have made to the file.</li>
        <li id="li_ozk_lgm_fgc"><uicontrol>Deselect all files</uicontrol> - Deselects all files you
          have selected.</li>
        <li id="li_h24_htr_jcc"><uicontrol>Discard changes from all files</uicontrol> - Discards all
          changes you have made.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p id="p_hbx_bgm_fgc">The History tab shows all repository commits up to the latest one
      currently in your workspace. You can hover over a commit to see more details, such as the
      committer's name, date, and the commit message. If you click on a commit, the committed files
      are displayed at the bottom of the pane.</p>
    <section id="section_my5_krv_jfc">
      <title>Commit</title>
      <p>When you are ready to save your changes to the project, use the
          <uicontrol>Commit...</uicontrol> button. You will be prompted to provide a commit message
        and then commit the changes.</p>
      <p>
        <note id="note_spr_gsv_jfc" type="important">The commit action will also push your selected
          changes to the corresponding branch in the project repository.</note>
      </p>
      <p>By default, all the files are included in the commit. However, each file in the
          <uicontrol>Changes</uicontrol> view has a checkbox that allows you to include or exclude
        it from the commit. The files that are not selected will remain in your workspace.<note
          id="note_l3x_5qv_jfc"> If you exclude some of the files, the <uicontrol>New Review
            Task</uicontrol> button is disabled because creating a review task from a selection of
          files is not currently supported. To create a review task, all changed files must be
          included. </note></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_cwv_t3v_vcc">
      <title>Create New Review Task Based on Your Workspace Changes</title>
      <p id="p_dwv_t3v_vcc">After making changes in your personal workspace, you can create a new
        review task that contains your changes. You can then share the task with others so that they
        review your changes before you integrate them back into the project.</p>
      <p id="p_hs1_2jv_vcc">To create a review task based on your changes, click the <uicontrol>New
          Review Task</uicontrol> button at the bottom of the <uicontrol>Changes</uicontrol> view.
        In the resulting page, you can give the review task a title, set a <uicontrol>Due
          date</uicontrol>, and select a <uicontrol>Context publication</uicontrol> from the list of
        defined publications for the project. The changed files that are automatically attached to
        the review task are listed in the <uicontrol>Files to review</uicontrol> box. Click
          <uicontrol>Create</uicontrol> when you are finished configuring the new review task. You
        can then <xref href="sharing_tasks_with_reviewers.dita#sharing_tasks_with_reviewers">share
          the task with <b>Reviewers</b></xref>.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
