<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="cf-review-tasks-projects">
  <title>Project Review Tasks vs Non-Project Review Tasks</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Project review tasks</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_o2t_pl3_vxb"><ph keyref="product"/> offers the ability to connect to an existing Git
      repository that has a DITA project as its source. This is managed within the Content Fusion
      browser interface through a feature known as <xref href="cf-projects.dita"
          ><term>Projects</term></xref>. Users with a <i>Content Fusion Author</i> role can create
      review tasks inside a project and reviewers' suggestions are tracked on a dedicated branch in
      the Git repository. You can also use the <term>Projects</term> feature to build and configure
      deliverables for creating PDF or <xref
        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/xml_webhelp/webhelp_responsive.html" format="html"
        scope="external"><b>Oxygen WebHelp Responsive</b></xref> output.</p>
    <section id="section_lyh_rm1_n2c">
      <title>Non-Project Review Tasks vs Projects</title>
      <p id="p_fvr_c32_z1c">The main differences between working with non-project based review tasks
        and projects are:<ul id="ul_wcv_lxf_zxb">
          <li id="li_vc1_qxf_zxb"><b>Non-Project Review Tasks</b> - Provides tools for technical
            writers and reviewers to create and use review tasks for efficient collaboration during
            their documentation review process.</li>
          <li id="li_xcv_lxf_zxb"><b>Projects</b> - Provides additional tools for technical writers
            to help manage a DITA project hosted in a Git repository while maintaining full
            compatibility with existing tools and workflows. Review tasks created within a Content
            Fusion project offer additional functionality, such as the ability to merge changes
            using a built-in file comparison/merge tool and to build WebHelp or PDF output
            deliverables.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section id="user_roles">
      <title>Project User Roles</title>
      <p>When working with projects, there are two user roles:<ul>
          <li><b>SME (Subject Matter Expert/Reviewer)</b> - By default, Content Fusion users have
            the SME (Subject Matter Expert) role assigned. This role allows the user to access
            review tasks assigned to them and to create review tasks from scratch.</li>
          <li><b>Content Fusion Author</b> - This role must be assigned to a user by an
              administrator<ph product="fusion"> (from the <xref
                href="cf-enterprise-configuration.dita">Administration page</xref>)</ph>. In
            addition to the features that an SME has access to, Authors can access all projects and
            are able to create review tasks inside projects, as well as other functionality that is
            restricted from an SME.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="cf-projects.dita"/>
    <link href="cf-non-project-review-tasks.dita"/>
  </related-links>
</topic>
