<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="cf-sftp-connector">
  <title>Publishing Content to SFTP Server</title>
  <body>
    <p>The SFTP connector facilitates publishing deliverable build outputs to the designated SFTP
      server. </p>
    <section id="section_zm1_xfm_2bc">
      <title>Requirements</title>
      <p>To publish content to a SFTP server, you must have the following:</p>
      <ul id="ul_lcs_srl_2bc">
        <li>A running SFTP server that can be accessed  by the application.</li>
        <li>An account that will allow you to connect to the SFPT server.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="section_g3w_1gm_2bc">
      <title>Define the Connector</title>
      <p>To configure a SFTP connector, the following fields must be provided:<dl
          id="dl_t13_mxy_dbc">
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Connector Name</dt>
            <dd>The name of the connector.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Host Name</dt>
            <dd>The address of the server where files will be transferred to.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Port Number</dt>
            <dd>The network port on which the SFTP server is listening.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Username</dt>
            <dd>The username used to log into the SFTP server.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Authentication </dt>
            <dd>The SFTP connector offers two authentication types, each with its corresponding
                fields.<ul id="ul_alk_fyy_dbc">
                <li><b>Password Authentication</b> - The following field will appear:<p
                    id="p_jnc_ybv_kbc">
                    <dl id="dl_d4m_qyy_dbc">
                      <dlentry id="dlentry_wnc_ybv_kbc">
                        <dt>Password</dt>
                        <dd>The password used for authenticating the user. </dd>
                      </dlentry>
                    </dl>
                  </p></li>
                <li><b>SSH Private Key Authentication</b>- The following fields will appear:<p
                    id="p_s3n_ybv_kbc">
                    <dl id="dl_f4s_yyy_dbc">
                      <dlentry id="dlentry_ejn_ybv_kbc">
                        <dt>Private Key</dt>
                        <dd>The private key used together with a server public key for
                          authenticating the user.</dd>
                      </dlentry>
                      <dlentry id="dlentry_fjn_ybv_kbc">
                        <dt>Passphrase</dt>
                        <dd>Optional passphrase used for decrypting the private key.</dd>
                      </dlentry>
                    </dl>
                  </p></li>
              </ul></dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl></p>
      <p>When configuring the SFTP connector, an initial connection to the server will be
        established, and you will receive a prompt to accept the Host Key fingerprint for the SFTP
          server.<note id="note_pcy_yzy_dbc" type="important">Make sure you verify that the Host Key
          fingerprint matches the one associated with your SFTP server. This verification ensures
          that the output is correctly published to the intended SFTP server.</note></p>
    </section>
    <section id="select_the_sfpt_connector_in_deliverable_settings">
      <title>Select the SFPT Connector in the Deliverables Page</title>
      <p>To publish the output of a deliverable to an SFTP server, follow these steps: <ol
          id="ol_j3p_jgm_2bc">
          <li>After configuring the SFTP connector, navigate to the
              <uicontrol>Deliverables</uicontrol> page, then either edit an existing deliverable or
            create a new one.</li>
          <li id="li_jd2_xv5_kbc">In the resulting configuration page, select the <uicontrol>Upload
              output using a publishing connector</uicontrol> option.</li>
          <li>Use the drop-down list below that option to select the SFTP connector that you
            previously defined.</li>
          <li>Specify the <filepath>Destination Folder</filepath>.<note id="note_a5w_ngm_2bc">The
              Folder where build output files will be stored after the upload process. </note></li>
          <li>Specify the <filepath>Temporary Folder</filepath>.<note id="note_zjn_n3m_2bc">The
              location where temporary files will be stored during the upload process. The
              Deliverable build process will upload the files inside the <filepath>Temporary
                Folder</filepath>. After completing the upload, the connector checks for the
              existence of the <filepath>Destination Folder</filepath> and follows one of these
                scenarios:<ul id="ul_jm4_n3m_2bc">
                <li>If the <filepath>Destination Folder</filepath> does not exist, then the
                  connector will rename the <filepath>Temporary Folder</filepath> to the
                    <filepath>Destination Folder</filepath>.</li>
                <li>If the <filepath>Destination Folder</filepath> exists, then the connector will
                  create a backup for the <filepath>Destination Folder</filepath> and then will move
                  the contents from the <filepath>Temporary Folder</filepath> to the
                    <filepath>Destination Folder</filepath>. If all operations are successful, the
                  backup is deleted. Otherwise, the backup will be restored in the
                    <filepath>Destination Folder</filepath>.</li>
              </ul></note></li>
          <li id="li_akt_1w5_kbc">Click <uicontrol>Save</uicontrol> at the bottom of the
            configuration page.</li>
          <li id="li_p11_ddv_kbc">Begin the Deliverable build process. Upon completion, the build
            output will be published to the configured SFTP server.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
