<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="cf-upload-plugins">
  <title>Uploading Plugins to Extend Content Fusion</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Uploading plugins</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Contributing plugins</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="cf-configuration-page">One of the advantages of using the <ph keyref="cfEnterprise"/>
      solution is that it's functionality can be extended through plugins. This must be done by
      someone who has access to customize <term>Oxygen XML Web Author</term> (for example, a server
      administrator).</p>
    <p>To upload a plugin to your <term>Oxygen XML Web Author</term> deployment, follow this
        procedure:<ol id="upload-framework-ol">
        <li>Go to your <xref href="cf-enterprise-configuration.dita#cf-enterprise-configuration"
            >Content Fusion Enterprise Administration Page</xref>.</li>
        <li>In the <uicontrol>Web Author</uicontrol> tab, click <uicontrol>Manage Web
            Author</uicontrol>. This will open the <term>Oxygen XML Web Author</term>
          <uicontrol>Administration</uicontrol> page.</li>
        <li>Select <uicontrol>Plugins</uicontrol>.</li>
        <li>Click <uicontrol>Upload Plugin</uicontrol> and choose a <term>plugin</term> archive to
            upload.<note type="important"><term>Oxygen XML Web Author</term> does a validation check
            to make sure the uploaded plugin archive contains the proper extension descriptor file
              (<filepath>*.framework</filepath>). The archive should contain exactly one folder.
            Otherwise, you will receive an error that the upload was rejected.</note></li>
        <li>
          <p>Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> to upload the file.</p>
          <p><b>Step Result:</b> The <term>plugin</term> should appear in the list on this
              <uicontrol>Plugins</uicontrol> page. Uploaded plugins appear with a light green
            highlight so that you can identify them easily.</p>
        </li>
        <li>Click the <uicontrol>Restart Server</uicontrol> button at the top of the page.</li>
      </ol></p>
  </body>
</topic>
