<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="cf-upgrading">
  <title>Upgrading Content Fusion</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Content Fusion Enterprise - Upgrading</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Upgrading</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <section id="preupgrade_notes">
      <title>Pre-Upgrade Notes</title>
      <p id="p_ll5_dgk_54b">
        <ul id="ul_ml5_dgk_54b">
          <li id="li_nl5_dgk_54b">System requirements: On the server running Content Fusion, you need enough disk space
            to create a backup. The backup file contains a compressed archive of all files located
            in <filepath>/fusion/data/</filepath>, so to be safe, the free space should be at least
            equal to the size of the data folder.</li>
          <li id="li_pl5_dgk_54b">Custom frameworks and plugins will need to be reinstalled manually on the new
            server.</li>
          <li id="li_ql5_dgk_54b">The upgrade process will involve some downtime, so pick a time that does not affect
            the users.</li>
        </ul>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="upgrade_procedure">
      <title>Recommended Upgrade Procedure</title>
      <ol id="ol_rl5_dgk_54b">
        <li id="li_sl5_dgk_54b">Deploy the new version of Content Fusion on a new server:<ul id="ul_tl5_dgk_54b">
            <li id="li_wl5_dgk_54b"><xref href="cf-linux.dita"/></li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Access the Configuration Page and set the administrator password. See the configuration
          section:<ul id="ul_gj4_jk3_vsb">
            <li id="li_owq_qk3_vsb"><xref href="cf-linux.dita#cf-linux/d1225e101">Linux: Initial
                <ph keyref="product"/> Configuration</xref></li>
          </ul></li>
        <li id="li_xl5_dgk_54b">Once the <b>new server</b> is ready, <xref href="cf-custom-frameworks.dita">reinstall
            any custom Web Author frameworks or plugins</xref> that you were using on the old
          server.</li>
        <li id="li_yl5_dgk_54b"><xref
            href="cf-admin-page-maintenance.dita#cf-admin-page-maintenance/dlentry_hh5_dgk_54b"
            >Enable maintenance mode</xref> on the <b>old server</b>. Maintenance mode is needed to
          ensure that users are not making any changes to the tasks while the backup is being
          created.</li>
        <li id="li_zl5_dgk_54b">
          <p id="p_am5_dgk_54b">Create a backup of the data on the old server by running the following command on the <b>old
              server</b>:<codeblock xml:space="preserve" outputclass="language-javascript" id="codeblock_bm5_dgk_54b">sudo bash /fusion/admin/create-fusion-backup.sh MY_BACKUP_FILE</codeblock></p>
          <p id="p_cm5_dgk_54b">This will create a backup archive
              (<filepath>MY_BACKUP_FILE</filepath>) in the current directory. If the backup file
            already exists, you will be prompted to choose whether or not to overwrite it. If you
            run the <filepath>create-fusion-backup.sh</filepath> command without specifying the
            backup file, it will create a timestamped file (e.g.
              <codeph>fusion-backup-20240325125325.tar.gz</codeph>) in the current directory. </p>
        </li>
        <li id="li_dm5_dgk_54b">Copy the <codeph>fusion-backup.tar.gz</codeph> backup file to the <b>newly deployed
            server</b>.</li>
        <li id="li_em5_dgk_54b">
          <p id="p_fm5_dgk_54b">On the <b>newly deployed server</b>, run the following command to restore the
            backup:<codeblock xml:space="preserve" outputclass="language-javascript" id="codeblock_gm5_dgk_54b">sudo bash /fusion/admin/restore-fusion-backup.sh /path/to/fusion-backup.tar.gz</codeblock>where
            the path to the backup file is updated to match your situation. </p>
          <p id="p_hm5_dgk_54b"><b>Step Result:</b> After restoring the backup, all the user tasks
            and configurations will be available in the new <b>Content Fusion</b> server.</p>
        </li>
        <li id="li_jm5_dgk_54b">Because the backup was created while maintenance mode was enabled,
          the new <b>Content Fusion</b> server will be in maintenance mode after the backup restore.
          Go to the <xref
            href="cf-admin-page-maintenance.dita#cf-admin-page-maintenance/dlentry_hh5_dgk_54b"
            >Administration Page and disable maintenance mode</xref>.</li>
        <li id="li_km5_dgk_54b">To test the upgrade, check to make sure the tasks and configurations that were present
          on the old server are now present on the new server.<note id="note_lm5_dgk_54b">Depending on the configuration,
            you may have to configure your mail server to accept emails from the new Content Fusion
            server.</note></li>
        <li id="li_mm5_dgk_54b">Replace the old server with the new one.</li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    <section id="section_pnn_kf4_rsb">
      <title>Fast Upgrade Procedure</title>
      <p id="p_qnn_kf4_rsb">
        <note id="note_sly_lf4_rsb" type="restriction">This procedure is only available for
          installations created with the Linux installation kit and the version you want to upgrade
          from is at least 5.0.</note>
      </p>
      <p id="p_v52_4f4_rsb">To upgrade an installation that was created by the installation kit:<ol
          id="ol_aqj_rf4_rsb">
          <li id="li_bqj_rf4_rsb">Go to the <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/content_fusion/download.html" format="html"
              scope="external">Content Fusion Download webpage</xref>.</li>
          <li id="li_t3t_1g4_rsb">Go to the <uicontrol>Linux</uicontrol> tab and download the
              <ph keyref="cfEnterprise"/> installation kit.</li>
          <li id="li_nwy_cg4_rsb"><xref href="cf-enterprise-backups.dita">Create a backup</xref> of
            your current installation. This step serves as a safeguard, ensuring that you can later
            recover your data from the previous version of Content Fusion in case of unforeseen
            complications that may arise during the installation process.<note id="note_m3g_sf2_gzb"
              type="important">The <filepath>/fusion/</filepath> folder will be removed during the
              installation, so your backup should not be located within it.</note></li>
          <li id="li_etq_gg4_rsb">Run the installer (the installation requires root privileges)
            using the <codeph>-u</codeph>
            flag.<codeblock outputclass="language-ini">sudo bash Oxygen_Content_Fusion_Enterprise.sh -u </codeblock></li>
        </ol><note id="note_klw_lg4_rsb">When the <codeph>-u</codeph> flag is used, the installation
          kit will upgrade the current version of Content Fusion, while keeping all the existing
          data and configuration settings. The Administration page credentials will be reset to the
            <xref href="cf-linux.dita#cf-linux/d1225e101">initial setting</xref> (user=<i>fusion</i>
          / password=<i>oxygenxml</i>) and will need to be re-configured.</note></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
