<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="cfdocs-output-hosting" product="fusion-cloud">
  <title>Publishing Content to Content Fusion Docs Web Platform</title>
  <shortdesc>
    The Content Fusion Docs Web Platform connector allows you to automatically upload and host your published deliverables on a publicly accessible web platform.
  </shortdesc>
  <body>
    <section id="section_rwq_nn4_jhc">
      <title>Features</title>
      <ul id="ul_swq_nn4_jhc">
        <li><b>Automatic Hosting</b>: Published deliverables are automatically uploaded and made available online.</li>
        <li><b>Public Access</b>: Your published content can be accessed by anyone with the deployment URL.</li>
        <li><b>Easy Sharing</b>: Share deployment URLs with team members, stakeholders, or clients.</li>
        <li><b>Automatic Connector Setup</b>: The Content Fusion Docs Web Platform connector is automatically created when you create a new project.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="section_twq_nn4_jhc">
      <title>Creating the Content Fusion Docs Web Platform Connector</title>
      <p id="p_uwq_nn4_jhc"><b>Automatic Connector Creation:</b> The Content Fusion Docs Web Platform connector is automatically created when you create a new project. The connector appears in your project's connector list with the name "Content Fusion Docs Web Platform".</p>
      <p id="p_vwq_nn4_jhc"><b>Manual Connector Creation:</b> If you need to create the connector manually:</p>
      <ol id="ol_wwq_nn4_jhc">
        <li>Go to your project's <b>Connectors</b> page.</li>
        <li>Click <b>Add Connector</b>.</li>
        <li>Select <b>Content Fusion Docs</b> as the connector type.</li>
        <li>The connector will be created and ready to use.</li>
      </ol>
      <note id="note_xwq_nn4_jhc">Only one Content Fusion Docs Web Platform connector can exist per project.</note>
    </section>
    <section id="section_ywq_nn4_jhc">
      <title>Using the Content Fusion Docs Web Platform Connector</title>
      <p id="p_zwq_nn4_jhc"><b>Setting Up a Deliverable:</b> To publish a deliverable using the Content Fusion Docs Web Platform connector:</p>
      <ol id="ol_axq_nn4_jhc">
        <li><b>Create or Edit a Deliverable</b>: Go to your project's deliverables page and create a new deliverable or edit an existing one.</li>
        <li><b>Enable Connector Upload</b>:
          <ul id="ul_bxq_nn4_jhc">
            <li>Check the <b>Upload using connector</b> option.</li>
            <li>Select <b>Content Fusion Docs Web Platform</b> from the connector dropdown.</li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li><b>Public Access Warning</b>: When you select the Content Fusion Docs Web Platform connector, you'll see a warning that the output will be publicly accessible. Make sure you're comfortable with this before proceeding.</li>
        <li><b>Save and Publish</b>: Save your deliverable settings and start a publishing task as usual.</li>
      </ol>
      <p id="p_cxq_nn4_jhc"><b>What Happens During Publishing:</b></p>
      <ol id="ol_dxq_nn4_jhc">
        <li>The output files are automatically uploaded to the hosting platform.</li>
        <li>A deployment is created and made available online.</li>
        <li>The deployment URL is generated and can be accessed immediately.</li>
        <li>The URL is displayed in the build output logs.</li>
      </ol>
      <p id="p_exq_nn4_jhc"><b>Deployment URL Format:</b></p>
      <codeblock id="codeblock_fxq_nn4_jhc">
{hosting-domain}/{organizationName}/{projectId}/{branch}/{deliverableId}
      </codeblock>
      <p id="p_gxq_nn4_jhc">You can share this URL with anyone who needs to view your published content.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_hxq_nn4_jhc">
      <title>Managing Deployments</title>
      <p id="p_ixq_nn4_jhc"><b>Viewing Deployments:</b> You can view all deployments for your Content Fusion Docs Web Platform connector:</p>
      <ol id="ol_jxq_nn4_jhc">
        <li>Go to your project's <b>Connectors</b> page.</li>
        <li>Find the <b>Content Fusion Docs Web Platform</b> connector.</li>
        <li>Click the <b>View Deployments</b> button.</li>
      </ol>
      <p id="p_kxq_nn4_jhc">The <b>Deployments</b> dialog displays all successful deployments for your project, showing:</p>
      <ul id="ul_lxq_nn4_jhc">
        <li><b>Deliverable</b>: The name and type of the deliverable (PDF or HTML5).</li>
        <li><b>Build Number</b>: The build number for this deployment.</li>
        <li><b>Publication</b>: The publication name used for this build.</li>
        <li><b>Branch</b>: The branch from which the content was published.</li>
        <li><b>Deployment URL</b>: A clickable link to view the published content online.</li>
      </ul>
      <p id="p_mxq_nn4_jhc"><b>Opening a Deployment:</b></p>
      <ol id="ol_nxq_nn4_jhc">
        <li>Open the <b>Deployments</b> dialog (see above).</li>
        <li>Click the <b>Deployment URL</b> link for the deployment you want to view.</li>
        <li>The published content will open in a new browser tab.</li>
      </ol>
      <p id="p_oxq_nn4_jhc"><b>Deleting Deployments:</b></p>
      <ol id="ol_pxq_nn4_jhc">
        <li>Open the <b>Deployments</b> dialog.</li>
        <li>Find the deployment you want to delete.</li>
        <li>Click the <b>Delete</b> icon (trash can) next to the deployment.</li>
        <li>Confirm the deletion in the confirmation dialog.</li>
      </ol>
      <note type="important" id="note_qxq_nn4_jhc">
        Deleting a deployment removes it from the hosting platform and the URL will no longer be accessible.
        If there's an active publishing task for the same deliverable, you'll see a warning before deletion.
        Once deleted, the deployment cannot be recovered.
      </note>
    </section>
    <section id="section_rxq_nn4_jhc">
      <title>Security Considerations</title>
      <p id="p_sxq_nn4_jhc"><b>Public Access:</b> <i>Important:</i> Content published using the Content Fusion Docs Web Platform connector is <b>publicly accessible</b> on the internet. Anyone with the deployment URL can view your published content.</p>
      <p id="p_txq_nn4_jhc"><b>Before using this connector, ensure that:</b></p>
      <ul id="ul_uxq_nn4_jhc">
        <li>The content you're publishing is appropriate for public access.</li>
        <li>No sensitive or confidential information is included in the published output.</li>
        <li>You understand that the content will be accessible to anyone with the URL.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
