<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="cgm-addon">
  <title>CGM Image Support Add-on</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Add-ons<indexterm>CGM image support</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>CGM image support add-on</indexterm>
        <indexterm>JCGM library</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_ytg_dgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> offers two add-ons that provide experimental support for CGM 1.0
      images. To allow the rendering of CGM images in <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode, follow
      this procedure:</p>
    <ol id="ol_ztg_dgk_54b">
      <li id="li_a5g_dgk_54b">Go to <menucascade>
          <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Install new add-ons</uicontrol>
        </menucascade> to open an add-on selection dialog box. </li>
      <li id="li_b5g_dgk_54b">Enter or paste <b>https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Addons/default/updateSite.xml</b> in
        the <uicontrol>Show add-ons from</uicontrol> field or select it from the drop-down
        menu.</li>
      <li id="li_c5g_dgk_54b">Select the <b>Oxygen CGM support</b> add-on and click <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol>. </li>
      <li id="li_d5g_dgk_54b">Read the end-user license agreement. Then select the <uicontrol>I accept all terms of
        the end-user license agreement</uicontrol> option and click <uicontrol>Finish</uicontrol>.</li>
      <li id="li_e5g_dgk_54b">Restart the application.</li>
    </ol>
    <p id="p_f5g_dgk_54b"><b>Result:</b> You should be able to see CGM images in <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol>
      mode.</p>
    <p id="p_g5g_dgk_54b">For more information, see the <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/oxygenxml.cgm.support"
        format="html" scope="external">details about this <b>CGM Support</b> add-on in
      GitHub</xref>.</p>
    <section id="alternate_method_for_isoview_active_x_component">
      <title>Alternate Method Using the ISOView Active X Component</title>
      <note type="restriction" id="note_h5g_dgk_54b">This support will only work on 32-bit versions of <ph
          keyref="product"/>.</note>
      <p id="p_i5g_dgk_54b">If you already have the <term>ISOView Active X</term> component for
        Internet Explorer installed, you may want to use it to render CGM images instead of the
        components provided in the plugin described above.</p>
      <p id="p_j5g_dgk_54b">To use your existing <term>ISOView Active X</term> component to render
        CCM images, follow these steps:<ol id="ol_k5g_dgk_54b">
          <li id="li_l5g_dgk_54b"> Go to <menucascade>
              <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Install new add-ons</uicontrol>
            </menucascade> to open an add-on selection dialog box. </li>
          <li id="li_m5g_dgk_54b"> Enter or paste
              <b>https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Addons/default/updateSite.xml</b> in the
              <uicontrol>Show add-ons from</uicontrol> field or select it from the drop-down menu. </li>
          <li id="li_n5g_dgk_54b"> Select <b>CGM Form control (Active X-based)</b> plugin and click
              <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol>. </li>
          <li id="li_o5g_dgk_54b"> Select the <b>I accept all terms of the end user license
              agreement</b> option and click <uicontrol>Finish</uicontrol>. </li>
          <li id="li_p5g_dgk_54b"> Restart the application. </li>
          <li id="li_q5g_dgk_54b">
            <p id="p_r5g_dgk_54b">The <b>CGM Form Control</b> plugin automatically renders CGM files
              in DITA, DocBook, and XHTML, so for those <term>frameworks</term>, this step is not
              necessary. For other document types, modify your CSS according to your particular
                <term>framework</term>.</p>
            <p id="p_s5g_dgk_54b">If you have an
              XML:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_t5g_dgk_54b">&lt;image href="MyCGMFile.cgm"/></codeblock></p>
            <p id="p_u5g_dgk_54b">You need a CSS rule like
              this:<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_v5g_dgk_54b">image[href$=".cgm"],
image[href$=".CGM"]{
    content: oxy_editor(
        saHeavyFormControlClassName , "com.oxygenxml.activex.fctrl.ActiveXFormControl", 
        href, oxy_url(oxy_base-uri() , attr(href)));
} </codeblock></p>
          </li>
        </ol></p>
      <p id="p_w5g_dgk_54b"><b>Result:</b> After performing these steps, you should now be able to see CGM images in
          <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
