<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ch_advanced_styling">
  <title>Advanced Styling</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Advanced styling</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <topic id="ch_hyphenation">
    <title>Hyphenation</title>
    <prolog>
      <metadata>
        <keywords>
          <indexterm>Hyphenation</indexterm>
        </keywords>
      </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <body>
      <p>The CSS <codeph>hyphens</codeph> property specifies how the words should be hyphenated when
        the paragraph text wraps on multiple lines. </p>
      <p>The accepted values are:<dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>manual</dt>
            <dd>Words are only hyphenated when there are characters inside the word that explicitly
              suggest hyphenation opportunities. Those characters are:<p>
                <dl>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>U+2010 (HYPHEN) -</dt>
                    <dd>The "hard" hyphen character indicates a visible line break opportunity. The
                      hyphen is always shown in the output.</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>U+00AD (SHY)</dt>
                    <dd>An invisible, "soft" hyphen. This character is not rendered visibly. It
                      marks a breaking place for the word if hyphenation is necessary. You can use
                        <codeph>&amp;#xAD;</codeph> in XML or <codeph>&amp;shy;</codeph> in
                      HTML.</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                </dl>
              </p></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>auto</dt>
            <dd>Words are hyphenated automatically according to an algorithm driven by a hyphenation
              dictionary. Also, <ph keyref="product"/> uses an aggressive technique to create
              hyphenation points at underscores, dots, and case changes. This is useful when your
              publication contains snippets of code (Java, etc). To disable this functionality, you
              can use the <xref
                href="ch_command_line_interface.dita#ch_command_line_interface/no-aggressive-hyphenation"
                  ><codeph>-no-aggressive-hyphenation</codeph> parameter</xref>.<note>The element,
                or one of its parents, must have a <codeph>lang</codeph> or
                  <codeph>xml:lang</codeph> attribute present for the processor to identify the
                hyphenation dictionary. If this is missing, the <codeph>manual</codeph> hyphenation
                is
                performed.<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;table <b>lang="en"</b>>
...
&lt;/table></codeblock></note></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>none</dt>
            <dd>Currently not supported by <ph keyref="product"/> and it falls back to
                <codeph>manual</codeph>. If your document does not use the <codeph>HYPHEN</codeph>
              or <codeph>SHY</codeph> characters, no hyphenation is done.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl></p>
      <p><b><u>Example: Hyphenation</u></b></p>
      <p>To perform hyphenation on all paragraphs from an HTML document, you can
        use:<codeblock outputclass="language-css">p {
  hyphens: auto;
}</codeblock></p>
      <p>Usually, it is best to activate hyphenation for elements that are known to have a limited
        width (for example, on tables) where long words could bleed out of the
        bounds:<codeblock outputclass="language-css">table {
  hyphens: auto;
}</codeblock></p>
      <section id="section_lmc_135_qbb">
        <title>Hyphenation Dictionaries</title>
        <p><ph keyref="product"/> provides built-in hyphenation patterns for the following
            languages:<table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1">
            <tgroup cols="2">
              <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="75pt" align="center"/>
              <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="200pt"/>
              <thead>
                <row>
                  <entry>Code</entry>
                  <entry>Language</entry>
                </row>
              </thead>
              <tbody>
                <row>
                  <entry>da</entry>
                  <entry>Danish</entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>de</entry>
                  <entry>German</entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>de_CH</entry>
                  <entry>German (Switzerland) </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>en</entry>
                  <entry>English</entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>en-GB</entry>
                  <entry>English (Great Britain)</entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>es</entry>
                  <entry>Spanish</entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>fr</entry>
                  <entry>French</entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>it</entry>
                  <entry>Italian</entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>nb</entry>
                  <entry>Norwegian Bokmål</entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>nl</entry>
                  <entry>
                    <p>Dutch</p>
                  </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>ro</entry>
                  <entry>Romanian</entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>ru</entry>
                  <entry>Russian</entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>sv</entry>
                  <entry>Swedish</entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>th</entry>
                  <entry>Thai</entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>pt</entry>
                  <entry>Portuguese</entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>da</entry>
                  <entry>Danish</entry>
                </row>
              </tbody>
            </tgroup>
          </table></p>
        <p>The built-in hyphenation pattern license terms are listed in the XML files in the
            <filepath>[CHEMISTRY_INSTALL_DIR]/config/hyph</filepath> folder. Most of them comply
          with the LaTex distribution policy.</p>
      </section>
      <section id="section_qq2_tnz_qbb">
        <title>Installing New Hyphenation Dictionaries</title>
        <p>The hyphenation dictionaries are located in:
            <filepath>[CHEMISTRY_INSTALL_DIR]/config/hyph</filepath>. The <filepath>.xml</filepath>
          files allow you to read the licensing terms. The <filepath>.hyp</filepath> files are the
          compiled dictionaries that <ph keyref="product"/> actually uses. </p>
        <p><ph keyref="product"/> uses the TeX hyphenation dictionaries converted to XML by the
            <codeph>OFFO</codeph> project: <xref href="https://sourceforge.net/projects/offo/"
            format="html" scope="external"/>.</p>
        <p>One simple way to add more dictionaries:<ol>
            <li><xref href="https://sourceforge.net/projects/offo/files/" format="html"
                scope="external">Download and extract the
                  <filepath>offo-hyphenation-compiled.zip</filepath></xref> file.</li>
            <li>Copy the <codeph>fop-hyph.jar</codeph> file to the
                <filepath>[CHEMISTRY_INSTALL_DIR]/lib</filepath> directory.</li>
            <li>If you just need a single dictionary, extract the corresponding
                <codeph>.hyp</codeph> file from that jar file and place it in the
                <filepath>[CHEMISTRY_INSTALL_DIR]config/hyph</filepath> directory.</li>
          </ol></p>
      </section>
      <section id="how_to_hide_hyphens">
        <title>How to Hide Hyphens</title>
        <p>It is possible to hide hyphens for cases where they are not needed (for example, when
          hyphenation occurs in a section of code). To hide the hyphens, use the space character in
          the <codeph>-oxy-hyphenation-character</codeph>
          property:<codeblock outputclass="language-css">pre {
 -oxy-hyphenation-character:" ";
}</codeblock></p>
      </section>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="ch_using_xpath_in_css">
    <title>Using XPath in CSS</title>
    <prolog>
      <metadata>
        <keywords>
          <indexterm>XPath in CSS</indexterm>
        </keywords>
      </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <body>
      <p>You can collect and process the document contents using XPath, directly from CSS. The
        following example counts the words from a section and shows it in a static text after the
        section:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css">section:after {
  contents: "Number of words: " 
            oxy_xpath("count(tokenize(normalize-space(string-join(text(), '')), ' '))";
}</codeblock>
      <p>All the standard XPath 2.0 functions are supported.</p>
    </body>
    <related-links>
      <linklist>
        <title>Related Information:</title>
        <link format="html"
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-editor/topics/dg-xpath-function.html"
          scope="external">
          <linktext>Oxygen XML Editor User Guide: oxy_xpath() Function</linktext>
        </link>
      </linklist>
    </related-links>
  </topic>
  <topic id="ch_multiple_before_after_pseudo_elements">
    <title>Multiple :before and :after Pseudo Elements</title>
    <prolog>
      <metadata>
        <keywords>
          <indexterm>before pseudo element</indexterm>
          <indexterm>after pseudo element</indexterm>
        </keywords>
      </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <body>
      <p>Although not standard, this extension may come in very handy if you want to style sections
        from static content. To add static content to an element, you would normally use a
          <codeph>:before</codeph> or <codeph>:after</codeph> pseudo element. </p>
      <p>This example adds static text before the title ("Chapter 1", "Chapter 2", etc.):</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css">h1:before {
  content: "Chapter " counter(chapter) ".";
  color: blue;
}</codeblock>
      <p>All of this is styled with the same color, blue in this example. Using standard CSS, it is
        impossible to style just the chapter number with a larger font and with red, for example.
        However, you can do it using multiple <codeph>before</codeph> pseudo elements: </p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css">h1:before(3) {
  content: "Chapter ";
  color: blue;
}
h1:before(2) {
  content: counter(chapter);
  color: red;
  font-size: large;
}
h1:before(1) {
  content: ".";
  color: blue;
}</codeblock>
      <note>The bigger the level, the more distant the pseudo element is.</note>
      <note>Level 1 corresponds to normal <codeph>:before</codeph> or
        <codeph>:after</codeph>.</note>
    </body>
  </topic>
</topic>
