<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ch_accessibility">
  <title>Accessibility (508 Compliance)</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Accessibility (508 compliance</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_tdv_dgk_54b">It is recommended that you make your PDF output accessible for people who are blind or
      visually impaired. Many government organizations require documents to be accessible.</p>
    <section id="section_wg5_wgl_xz">
      <title>PDF Accessibility Tagging</title>
      <p id="p_udv_dgk_54b">By default, <ph keyref="product"/> partially creates accessible PDF documents in the sense
        that most of the paragraphs, tables, lists, headers, and footers are tagged automatically
        for any XML vocabulary, and PDF readers use this information to present the content. </p>
      <p id="p_vdv_dgk_54b">In addition, the default CSS files used by <ph keyref="product"/> to generate PDF based on
        HTML defines accessibility tags for headings (<codeph>H1..H6</codeph>), quotations
          (<codeph>Q</codeph>), sections (<codeph>SECTION</codeph>), and pre-formatted text
          (<codeph>PRE</codeph>). </p>
      <p id="p_wdv_dgk_54b">However, this tagging just takes the element name into account. If your element has a
        different semantic, you can impose a different PDF accessibility tag by using the
          <codeph>-oxy-pdf-tag-type</codeph> extension. In the following example, a paragraph with
        the <codeph>note</codeph> class will be marked:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_xdv_dgk_54b">p.note {
  -oxy-pdf-tag-type: "Note";
}</codeblock>
      <note id="note_ydv_dgk_54b">The headers and footers (or other text placed in the page margins) are automatically
        marked as artifacts, so they are ignored by the screen readers.</note>
    </section>
    <section id="section_lrg_43k_xz">
      <title>Hints for Making Documents More Accessible</title>
      <p id="p_zdv_dgk_54b"><b>Hint 1:</b> The title of the document must be marked using the metadata. </p>
      <p id="p_a2v_dgk_54b">This is important for accessibility since it will allow the screen reader to identify the
        publication title. This is an example using the <codeph>-oxy-pdf-meta-title</codeph>
          extension:<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_b2v_dgk_54b">title {
    -oxy-pdf-meta-title: content(text);
}</codeblock><note id="note_c2v_dgk_54b">The
          default CSS files for generating PDF based on HTML already contains this rule.</note></p>
      <p id="p_d2v_dgk_54b"><b>Hint 2:</b> Use <codeph>xml:lang</codeph> on the root of your document. For HTML
        documents, use the <xmlatt>lang</xmlatt> attribute.</p>
      <p id="p_e2v_dgk_54b"><b>Hint 3:</b> Put an alternate text on all the images. </p>
      <p id="p_f2v_dgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> supports the <codeph>-oxy-alt-text</codeph> extension that can be
        used to associate the alternate text. </p>
      <p id="p_g2v_dgk_54b">The following is an example from the <ph keyref="product"/> default CSS for generating PDF
        based on HTM, where it maps the property to the value of the <xmlatt>alt</xmlatt> attribute
        of the <xmlelement>img</xmlelement> tag:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_h2v_dgk_54b">img {
   -oxy-alt-text: attr(alt);
}</codeblock>
      <p id="p_i2v_dgk_54b">For embedded SVG, <ph keyref="product"/> automatically uses the <xmlelement>title</xmlelement>
        element as the alternate text of the image.</p>
      <p id="p_j2v_dgk_54b">For embedded MathML, <ph keyref="product"/> automatically uses the <xmlatt>alttext</xmlatt>
        attribute as the alternate text of the equation.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_gsx_2ld_xz">
      <title>Fully Accessible PDF (PDF/UA1)</title>
      <p id="p_k2v_dgk_54b">To make the PDF fully accessible, you have to activate the PDF/UA-1 mode. PDF/UA documents
        meet the regulations set in Section 508. This mode has special requirements:</p>
      <ol id="ol_xm5_zkd_xz">
        <li id="li_l2v_dgk_54b">Activate the PDF UA-1 mode from the command line using the <codeph>-pdf-ua</codeph>
          parameter.</li>
        <li id="li_m2v_dgk_54b">All the fonts must be embedded. If you are using one of the basic fonts (such as
          "Times", "Helvetica", etc.), make sure you explicitly define CSS font faces for them. For
          details, see: <xref href="ch_fonts_font_embedding.dita"/>. <note type="trouble" id="note_n2v_dgk_54b">If you are using fonts other than the basic ones and
            still have problems embedding the basic default fonts, make sure all elements are styled
            using one of your fonts of choice. A catch all CSS rule might be
            helpful:<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_o2v_dgk_54b">:root{
  font-family: Arial;
}

@page {
    @top-left {font-family: Arial }
    @top-right {font-family: Arial }
    @top-center {font-family: Arial }
    @top-left-corner {font-family: Arial }
    @top-right-corner {font-family: Arial }
    
    @bottom-left {font-family: Arial }
    @bottom-right {font-family: Arial }
    @bottom-center {font-family: Arial }
    @bottom-left-corner {font-family: Arial }
    @bottom-right-corner {font-family: Arial }
}</codeblock></note></li>
        <li id="li_p2v_dgk_54b">The title of the document must be marked using the metadata. This is important for
          accessibility since it will allow the screen reader to identify the publication title.
          This is important for accessibility since it will allow the screen reader to identify the
          publication title. This is an example using the <codeph>-oxy-pdf-meta-title</codeph>
            extension:<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_q2v_dgk_54b">title {
    -oxy-pdf-meta-title: content(text);
}</codeblock><note id="note_r2v_dgk_54b">The
            default CSS files for generating PDF based on HTML already contains this
          rule.</note></li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    <section id="section_krm_lcy_zz">
      <title>Tools for Checking the Document Accessibility</title>
      <ul id="ul_s2v_dgk_54b">
        <li id="li_t2v_dgk_54b">For smaller documents, this site might be helpful: <xref
            href="http://www.access-for-all.ch/ch/pdf-werkstatt/pdf-accessibility-checker-pac.html"
            format="html" scope="external"/></li>
        <li id="li_u2v_dgk_54b">From Adobe: <xref
            href="https://helpx.adobe.com/acrobat/using/create-verify-pdf-accessibility.html"
            format="html" scope="external"/></li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="ch_metadata.dita"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
