<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ch_advanced_styling_hyphenation_installing_new_hyphenation_dictionaries">
  <title>Installing New Hyphenation Dictionaries</title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_g3t_cgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> uses the <term>TeX</term> hyphenation dictionaries converted to XML by
      the <term>OFFO</term> project: <xref href="https://sourceforge.net/projects/offo/"
        format="html" scope="external"/>. </p>
    <p id="p_h3t_cgk_54b">The <filepath>.xml</filepath> files allow you to access the licensing terms and you can use
      them as a starting point to create customized dictionaries (see <xref
        href="ch_how_to_alter_a_hyphenation_dictionary.dita"/>).</p>
    <p id="p_i3t_cgk_54b">The <filepath>.hyp</filepath> files are the compiled dictionaries that the <ph
        keyref="product"/> actually uses.</p>
    <p product="chemistry" id="p_j3t_cgk_54b">The hyphenation dictionaries are located in:
        <filepath>[CHEMISTRY_INSTALL_DIR]/config/hyph</filepath>. </p>
    <p product="pdf-css ope" id="p_k3t_cgk_54b">The hyphenation dictionaries are located in:
        <filepath>[OPE_INSTALL_DIR]/plugins/com.oxygenxml.pdf.css/lib/oxygen-pdf-chemistry/config/hyph</filepath>. </p>
    <p id="p_l3t_cgk_54b">One simple way to add more dictionaries:<ol id="ol_tm5_k2p_llb">
        <li id="li_m3t_cgk_54b"><xref href="https://sourceforge.net/projects/offo/files/" format="html" scope="external"
            >Download and extract the <filepath>offo-hyphenation-compiled.zip</filepath></xref>
          file. This file is a bundle of many dictionary files.</li>
      
        <li product="chemistry" id="li_n3t_cgk_54b">Copy the <codeph>fop-hyph.jar</codeph> file to the
            <filepath>[CHEMISTRY_INSTALL_DIR]/lib</filepath> directory.</li>

        <li product="pdf-css ope" id="li_o3t_cgk_54b">Copy the <codeph>fop-hyph.jar</codeph> file to the
          <filepath product="ope">[OPE_INSTALL_DIR]/plugins/com.oxygenxml.pdf.css/lib/oxygen-pdf-chemistry/lib</filepath>
          <filepath product="pdf-css">[DITA_OT_DIR]/plugins/com.oxygenxml.pdf.css/lib/oxygen-pdf-chemistry/lib</filepath>
          directory.</li>
      
        <li product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse" id="li_p3t_cgk_54b">Copy the
            <codeph>fop-hyph.jar</codeph> file to the <filepath>[OXYGEN_INSTALL_DIR]/lib</filepath>
          directory.</li>
        <li product="chemistry" id="li_q3t_cgk_54b">If you just need a single dictionary, place the
            <codeph>.hyp</codeph> or <codeph>.xml</codeph> file extracted from the above jar in the
            <filepath>[CHEMISTRY_INSTALL_DIR]/config/hyph</filepath> directory, or in another
          directory and use the <codeph>-hyph-dir</codeph> parameter.</li>
        <li product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse" id="li_r3t_cgk_54b">If you
          just need a single dictionary, place the <codeph>.hyp</codeph> or <codeph>.xml</codeph>
          file in the <filepath>[OXYGEN_INSTALL_DIR]/config/hyph</filepath> directory (create that
          directory if it is missing).</li>
        <li product="pdf-css ope" id="li_s3t_cgk_54b">If you just need a single dictionary, place the
            <codeph>.hyp</codeph> or <codeph>.xml</codeph> file in the
            <filepath product="ope">[OPE_INSTALL_DIR]/plugins/com.oxygenxml.pdf.css/lib/oxygen-pdf-chemistry/config/hyph</filepath>
            <filepath product="pdf-css">[DITA_OT_DIR]/plugins/com.oxygenxml.pdf.css/lib/oxygen-pdf-chemistry/config/hyph</filepath>
          directory.</li>
      </ol></p>
  </body>
</topic>
