<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ch_command_line_interface">
  <title>Command Line Interface</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Processing PDF Chemistry from command line</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Command-line arguments</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_jp5_dgk_54b">You can process an XML or HTML document from a command-line interface like this:</p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-ini" id="codeblock_kp5_dgk_54b">chemistry -in my_file.xml -out my_file.pdf</codeblock>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-ini" id="codeblock_lp5_dgk_54b">chemistry -in my_file.html -out my_file.pdf</codeblock>
    <p id="p_mp5_dgk_54b">You can specify one or more CSS files to be used. If the document is an HTML document, it may
      include references to other stylesheets or styles can be embedded using the
        <xmlelement>style</xmlelement> element. The command-line CSS files take precedence over
      files referenced from the document:</p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-ini" id="codeblock_np5_dgk_54b">chemistry -in my_file.html -out my_file.pdf -css style1.css style2.css</codeblock>
    <section id="section_i4y_j1b_wz">
      <title>Required Parameters</title>
      <p id="p_op5_dgk_54b">
        <dl id="dl_pp5_dgk_54b">
          <dlentry id="dlentry_qp5_dgk_54b">
            <dt>-in</dt>
            <dd>The input XML or HTML file in URI or File syntax.
              <codeblock outputclass="language-ini" id="codeblock_rp5_dgk_54b">-in http://my.example.com/my_file.html</codeblock><codeblock outputclass="language-ini" id="codeblock_sp5_dgk_54b">-in C:\my.folder\my_file.xml</codeblock></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_tp5_dgk_54b">
            <dt>-out</dt>
            <dd>The output PDF file in File syntax.
              <codeblock outputclass="language-ini" id="codeblock_up5_dgk_54b">-out C:\publishing\my_file.pdf</codeblock></dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_mbq_r1b_wz">
      <title>Optional Parameters</title>
      <p id="p_vp5_dgk_54b">
        <dl id="dl_wp5_dgk_54b">
					<dlentry id="dt_rrt_44f_qfb">
						<dt>-catalog-prefer</dt>
						<dd>Catalog preference mode. Possible values are: 'system' or 'public'.
							Default is 'public'.</dd>
					</dlentry>
					<dlentry id="dlentry_xp5_dgk_54b">
						<dt>-catalogs</dt>
						<dd>The path to one or more XML catalogs, in URI or File syntax. You can
							separate the paths by using the ";" (semi-colon) character. You can use
							a catalog to solve DTD or Schema references to local files. If the list
							of catalog files is big, you may run into command-line size limitations.
							In this case, consider passing it as the <xref
								href="environment_variables.dita#environment_variables/dt_cy1_b5f_qfb"
							/> environment variable.</dd>
					</dlentry>
					<dlentry id="dlentry_yp5_dgk_54b">
						<dt>-css</dt>
						<dd>A list of CSS files, in URI or File syntax, separated by spaces.
							<codeblock outputclass="language-ini" id="codeblock_zp5_dgk_54b">-css http://my.example.com/css/pages.css http://my.example.com/css/fonts-and-colors.css </codeblock>If
							you want to process an HTML document, this parameter is optional. If you
							specify a CSS, it is considered to be more important than the ones
							referenced from the document (for example, using the
								<xmlelement>link</xmlelement> element or the
								<codeph>xml-stylesheet</codeph> processing instruction).</dd>
					</dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>-compress-pdf</dt>
            <dd>Compresses the created PDF to reduce its size. This may increase processing
              time.</dd>
          </dlentry>
					<dlentry id="dlentry_aq5_dgk_54b">
						<dt>-disable-xinclude</dt>
						<dd>A security setting that disables XML inclusions (XInclude). This is
							recommended when using Chemistry in a Web context. In addition, you
							should use a Java Security Manager to control the exact permissions
							granted to the processor.</dd>
					</dlentry>
					<dlentry id="dlentry_bq5_dgk_54b">
						<dt>-disable-xxe</dt>
						<dd>A security setting that disables XML external entities. This is
							recommended when using Chemistry in a Web context. In addition, you
							should use a Java Security Manager to control the exact permissions
							granted to the processor.</dd>
					</dlentry>
					<dlentry id="dlentry_cq5_dgk_54b">
						<dt>-dump-fo</dt>
						<dd>Dumps the FO file (before converting it to PDF) in the same location as
							the output file. This can be used for debugging purposes.</dd>
					</dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_gq5_dgk_54b">
            <dt>-dump-styled-content</dt>
            <dd>Dumps the intermediate, annotated XML file in the same location as the output file.
              This can be used for debugging purposes.</dd>
          </dlentry>
					<dlentry id="dlentry_dq5_dgk_54b">
						<dt>-drop-block-margins-at-page-boundary</dt>
						<dd>Specifies that the top and bottom margins associated with a block
							element should be discarded when the block is at the top or bottom of
							the page. Allowed values:<ul id="ul_vlx_wjd_b3b">
								<li id="li_eq5_dgk_54b"><b>yes</b> (default)</li>
								<li id="li_fq5_dgk_54b"><b>no</b></li>
							</ul></dd>
					</dlentry>
					<dlentry id="dlentry_iq5_dgk_54b">
						<dt>-enable-latin-glyph-substitutions</dt>
						<dd>When set to <b>yes</b> (default), glyph substitution is enabled (if the
							particular font supports it). This applies to Latin-based scripts only
							(the substitutions are always enabled in other types of scripts). If you
							encounter problems rendering or copying accented glyphs (i.e.
								<term>umlauts</term> or other <term>diacritics</term>), it might be
							helpful to set this parameter to <b>no</b> to disable the font glyph
							substitutions. Another example of a case when you might need to disable
							the substitutions is a situation where an accented character cannot be
							mapped to a compound glyph, resulting in the glyph not being rendered in
							the PDF output.<note type="other" othertype="Warnings"
								id="note_jq5_dgk_54b">
								<ul id="ul_y22_1d5_znb">
									<li id="li_kq5_dgk_54b">Disabling substitutions also disables
										Latin ligatures.</li>
									<li id="li_lq5_dgk_54b">Disabling substitutions is not
										recommended unless absolutely necessary. It is better
										practice to use another font if you can find one that does
										not have the rendering issues.</li>
								</ul>
							</note></dd>
					</dlentry>
          <dlentry id="enable-latin-ligatures">
            <dt>-enable-latin-ligatures</dt>
            <dd>Used to enable ligatures between some of the characters from the Latin glyph range.
              The character sequences that might be combined are highly dependent on the font, but
              they are usually: "<i>fi</i>", "<i>fl</i>", "<i>tt</i>". <note id="note_hq5_dgk_54b"
                >This parameter is deprecated. Use the <codeph>font-variant-ligatures</codeph> CSS
                property instead. See <xref href="ch_fonts_font_variant_ligatures.dita"/> for more
                information.</note></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>-expand-xpath-in-svg-templates</dt>
            <dd>When set to yes (default), each XPath expression that has a format of
                <codeph>${expression}</codeph> inside SVG templates files (with a
                <codeph>.template.svg</codeph> file extension) will be expanded.</dd>
          </dlentry>
					<dlentry id="dlentry_mq5_dgk_54b">
						<dt>-fonts-dir</dt>
						<dd>The directory with additional fonts. The TTF files should be placed
							directly in it (no subdirectory).</dd>
					</dlentry>
					<dlentry id="dlentry_nq5_dgk_54b">
						<dt>-help</dt>
						<dd>Prints the usage information.</dd>
					</dlentry>
					<dlentry id="dlentry_oq5_dgk_54b">
						<dt>-http-proxy-host</dt>
						<dd>The HTTP proxy host.</dd>
					</dlentry>
					<dlentry id="dlentry_pq5_dgk_54b">
						<dt>-http-proxy-port</dt>
						<dd>The HTTP proxy
							port.<codeblock outputclass="language-ini" id="codeblock_qq5_dgk_54b">-http-proxy-host my.proxy.server -http-proxy-port 3128</codeblock></dd>
					</dlentry>
					<dlentry id="dlentry_rq5_dgk_54b">
						<dt>-hyph-dir</dt>
						<dd>The directory that contains additional hyphenation dictionaries. The XML
							files should be placed directly in it (not a subdirectory) and they
							should be named using the language code (e.g.
								<filepath>en.xml</filepath>). For more information about adding or
							altering dictionaries, see: <xref
								href="ch_advanced_styling_hyphenation.dita"/>.</dd>
					</dlentry>
					<dlentry id="dlentry_sq5_dgk_54b">
						<dt>-image-resolution</dt>
						<dd>The resolution (in DPI) of the raster images (an integer), for images
							that do not provide this meta information. For changing the resolution
							using CSS, see: <xref href="ch_graphics_image_resolution.dita"/>.</dd>
						<dd>
							<codeblock outputclass="language-ini" id="codeblock_tq5_dgk_54b">-image-resolution 72</codeblock>
						</dd>
					</dlentry>
					<dlentry id="dlentry_uq5_dgk_54b">
						<dt>-licensekey-dir</dt>
						<dd>Specifies the directory where the license key file is located. The
							license key file should have the name
								<filepath>licensekey.txt</filepath>.</dd>
					</dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>-log-file</dt>
            <dd>Specifies the path to a custom <filepath>logback.xml</filepath> configuration file.
              See: <xref href="ch_logging.dita"/>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
					<dlentry id="no-aggressive-hyphenation">
						<dt>-no-aggressive-hyphenation</dt>
						<dd><ph keyref="product"/> normally uses an aggressive technique to create
							hyphenation points at underscores, dots, and case changes. To disable
							this functionality, use this <codeph>-no-aggressive-hyphenation</codeph>
							parameter.</dd>
					</dlentry>
					<dlentry id="dlentry_xq5_dgk_54b">
						<dt>-no-network</dt>
						<dd>Denies access to all your network connections. If your XML document or
							CSS files reference remote resources, the transformation will fail. This
							parameter is ignored when the <codeph>-security-policy</codeph> file is
							specified.</dd>
					</dlentry>
					<dlentry id="no-rtl-mirroring">
						<dt>-no-rtl-mirroring</dt>
						<dd>Disables switching of left and right margins, padding, and borders for
							right-to-left content. To make stylesheet development easier, the left
							margin automatically becomes the right margin when the paragraph has an
							RTL orientation.</dd>
					</dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>-pdf-a</dt>
            <dd>Produces output that conforms to the PDF/A archiving standards. The conversion will
              fail if fonts are not embedded. See: <xref href="ch_archiving.dita"/>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>-pdf-security-encrypt-metadata</dt>
            <dd>Encrypts the metadata. By default, it is active when other security parameters are
              set.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>-pdf-security-encrypt-structure-element</dt>
            <dd>Encrypts the structure elements. By default, inactive when other security parameters
              are set.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>-pdf-security-restrict-accesscontent</dt>
            <dd>Restricts extracting text and graphics. Used for protecting the PDF Document. The
              restriction is off by default.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>-pdf-security-restrict-annotations</dt>
            <dd>Restricts filling in existing interactive forms. Used for protecting the PDF
              Document. The restriction is off by default.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>-pdf-security-restrict-assembledoc</dt>
            <dd>Restricts assembling document (e.g. adding pages). Used for protecting the PDF
              Document. The restriction is off by default.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>-pdf-security-restrict-copy</dt>
            <dd>Restricts copying content. Used for protecting the PDF Document. The restriction is
              off by default.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>-pdf-security-restrict-edit</dt>
            <dd>Restricts copying content. Used for protecting the PDF Document. The restriction is
              off by default.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>-pdf-security-restrict-fillinforms</dt>
            <dd>Restricts filling in existing interactive forms. Used for protecting the PDF
              Document. The restriction is off by default.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>-pdf-security-restrict-print</dt>
            <dd>Restricts printing. Used for protecting the PDF Document. The restriction is off by
              default.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>-pdf-security-restrict-printhq</dt>
            <dd>Restricts high quality printing. Used for protecting the PDF Document. The
              restriction is off by default. </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>-pdf-security-user-password</dt>
            <dd>The user password. The document can be opened using either this password or the
              owner password. When the owner password is specified, the document can be opened by
              using the user password but with possible other restrictions.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>-pdf-security-owner-password</dt>
            <dd>The owner password (if this is provided when the document is opened in the reader
              application, with no restrictions).</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_yq5_dgk_54b">
            <dt>-pdf-ua</dt>
            <dd>Produces output that conforms to the PDF/UA-1 accessibility standards. The
              conversion will fail if fonts are not embedded. See: <xref
                href="ch_accessibility.dita"/>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="pdf-version">
            <dt>-pdf-version</dt>
            <dd>Use this parameter to specify the version of the produced PDF. It has no impact on
              the set of PDF features used by the engine, but may be used to signal a compatibility
              level to the PDF readers. The default is <b>1.5</b>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
					<dlentry>
						<dt>-security-policy</dt>
						<dd>Specifies the Java security policy file (in URL or file path syntax). This policy file can
              be used to restrict the processor access to certain resources (e.g. files, network).
              For more details, see: <xref href="ch_security_policy.dita"/>.</dd>
					</dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>-security-resources-dir1</dt>
            <dt>-security-resources-dir2</dt>
            <dt>-security-resources-dir3</dt>
            <dt>-security-resources-dir4</dt>
            <dt>-security-resources-dir5</dt>
            <dd>Specifies additional directories (to the input folder) where resources (e.g. images,
              CSS stylesheets, etc.) are stored. These parameters are automatically expanded in the
              Java security policy file, with read access, when the
                <codeph>-security-policy</codeph> is specified. For more details, see: <xref
                href="ch_security_policy.dita"/>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>-security-resources-host</dt>
            <dd>Specifies the host where resources (e.g. images, CSS stylesheets, etc.) are stored.
              This parameter is automatically expanded in the Java security policy file, with
              connect access, when the <codeph>-security-policy</codeph> was specified. For more
              details, see: <xref href="ch_security_policy.dita"/>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
					<dlentry>
						<dt>-security-workspace</dt>
						<dd>Specifies the directory where the temporary files and font cache is
							stored. This parameter is automatically expanded in the Java security
							policy file, with read and write access, when the
								<codeph>-security-policy</codeph> is specified. For more details,
							see: <xref href="ch_security_policy.dita"/>.</dd>
					</dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>-keystore-file</dt>
            <dd>The keystore file used to sign the PDF. This parameter must be set if you want to
              sign your PDF.  See: <xref href="ch_signing.dita"/>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>-sign-name</dt>
            <dd>The name of the person/company who certified the PDF.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>-sign-location</dt>
            <dd>The location of the person/company who certified the PDF.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>-sign-reason</dt>
            <dd>The reason for certifying the PDF.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>-sign-password</dt>
            <dd>The export password of the keystore used to sign the PDF.</dd>
          </dlentry>
					<dlentry id="dlentry_zq5_dgk_54b">
						<dt>-show-changes-and-comments-as-pdf-sticky-notes</dt>
						<dd>When set to <b>yes</b> (default), the review elements are shown as PDF
							annotations. When set to <b>no</b>, the review elements are left in the
							document object model and can be styled using CSS rules.</dd>
					</dlentry>
					<dlentry id="dlentry_ar5_dgk_54b">
						<dt>-show-changed-text-in-pdf-sticky-notes-content</dt>
						<dd>When set to <b>yes</b> (default), the inserted and deleted text is shown
							in the PDF annotations. When set to <b>no</b>, only the <i>inserted</i>
							and <i>deleted</i> labels are shown in the PDF annotations.</dd>
					</dlentry>
					<dlentry id="dlentry_br5_dgk_54b">
						<dt>-show-image-map-area-numbers</dt>
						<dd>When set to <b>yes</b>, a counter for each area from the image map will
							be displayed over the image, near the defined shape. The default is
								<b>no</b>.</dd>
					</dlentry>
					<dlentry id="dlentry_cr5_dgk_54b">
						<dt>-show-image-map-area-shapes</dt>
						<dd>When set to <b>yes</b>, each of the image map area shapes will be
							displayed with a translucent fill over the image. You can use this to
							debug your image maps. The default is <b>no</b>. For customizing the
							aspect of the shapes, see <xref href="ch_image_maps_html.dita"/>.</dd>
					</dlentry>
					<dlentry id="dlentry_dr5_dgk_54b">
						<dt>-show-pdf</dt>
						<dd>Opens the created PDF file in the default application (Windows
							only).</dd>
					</dlentry>
					<dlentry id="dlentry_er5_dgk_54b">
						<dt>-use-css-for-embedded-svg</dt>
						<dd>When set to <b>yes</b> (default), the CSS files specified by the
								<codeph>-css</codeph> parameter are also applied on embedded SVG
							elements. Allowed values are <b>yes</b> and <b>no</b>.</dd>
					</dlentry>
					<dlentry id="dlentry_fr5_dgk_54b">
						<dt>-v</dt>
						<dd>Shows the version of the processor.</dd>
					</dlentry>
					<dlentry id="xmx-command">
						<dt id="dt_gry_yhz_2bb">-Xmx&lt;NNN>m</dt>
						<dd>Used to specify the maximum amount of memory that is available to the
								<ph keyref="product"/> process. For example, to allow the process to
							use 1GB of
							memory:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini" id="codeblock_gr5_dgk_54b">-Xmx1024m</codeblock></dd>
						<dd>
							<note id="note_hr5_dgk_54b" type="other" othertype="Notes">
								<ul id="ul_epy_tkq_w4b">
									<li id="li_fpy_tkq_w4b">The default is 512MB.</li>
									<li id="li_n1j_5kq_w4b">Larger memory settings (beyond 1GB) are
										permitted only when the Java Virtual Machine that runs <ph
											keyref="product"/> is 64 bits and there is enough
										physical memory accessible to the operating system.</li>
								</ul>
							</note>
							<note id="note_jr5_dgk_54b" type="important">If the
									<codeph>JAVA_ARG_LINE</codeph> environment variable is set, this
								parameter is ignored.</note>
						</dd>
					</dlentry>
				</dl>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
