<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ch_css_extensions">
  <title>Extension CSS Properties</title>
  <body>
    <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_a1p_t5x_zz" outputclass="no-hyphens">
      <title>The following extension properties are supported by <ph keyref="product"/></title>
      <tgroup cols="5">
        <colspec colname="newCol1" colnum="1" colwidth="6.67*"/>
        <colspec colname="newCol2" colnum="2" colwidth="20.93*"/>
        <colspec colname="newCol3" colnum="3" colwidth="5.67*" align="center"/>
        <colspec colname="newCol5" colnum="4" colwidth="3.93*" align="center"/>
        <colspec colname="newCol4" colnum="5" colwidth="1.67*" align="center"/>
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry>Property</entry>
            <entry>Description</entry>
            <entry>Supported Values</entry>
            <entry>Default Value</entry>
            <entry rotate="1">Inheritable</entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry>-oxy-alt-text</entry>
            <entry>Used to specify an alternative description for the element that is used by the
              PDF readers.
              <codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_jvv_dgk_54b">image {
  -oxy-alt-text: "Image about: " attr(href);
}</codeblock></entry>
            <entry><b>&lt;string></b> | <b>initial</b> | <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>-oxy-avoid-breaking-line-at-hyphens</entry>
            <entry>This can be used to avoid a line break inside a word that contains a hard hyphen.
              This property is deprecated and has been replaced by <xref
                href="#ch_css_extensions/entry_asp_r53_55b"
              >-oxy-break-line-at-hyphens</xref>.</entry>
            <entry><b>yes</b> | <b>no</b></entry>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
            <entry><b>yes</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>-oxy-borders-conditionality</entry>
            <entry>This can be used to configure whether or not bottom and top borders appear on a
              split element when a page break occurs. Supported values are:<ul id="ul_zk1_3dw_ljb">
                <li id="li_kvv_dgk_54b"><b>discard</b> - Makes the borders disappear.</li>
                <li id="li_lvv_dgk_54b"><b>retain</b> - Forces the bottom and top border to be
                  displayed.</li>
                <li id="li_mvv_dgk_54b"><b>inherit</b> - Inherits the value specified in the parent
                  element. </li>
              </ul><codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_nvv_dgk_54b">td {
  -oxy-borders-conditionality: retain;
}</codeblock></entry>
            <entry><b>discard</b> | <b>retain</b> | <b>inherit</b> | <b>initial</b> |
              <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry><b>discard</b></entry>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry id="entry_asp_r53_55b">-oxy-break-line-at-hyphens</entry>
            <entry>This can be used to set the line break inside a word that contains a hard hyphen.
              Supported values are:<ul id="ul_d4x_f31_55b">
                <li><b>auto</b> - Let the default hyphenation algorithm process the words</li>
                <li><b>avoid</b> - Forces the algorithm not to break inside a word at hard
                  hyphen</li>
                <li><b>always</b> - Forces the algorithm to break inside a word at hard hyphen</li>
              </ul><note id="note_qn1_k31_55b">Breaking the line at a hard hyphen can cause the PDF
                readers to join the lines but discard the hyphen character when copying and pasting
                content.</note></entry>
            <entry><b>auto</b> | <b>avoid</b> | <b>always</b></entry>
            <entry><b>auto</b></entry>
            <entry><b>yes</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry id="entry_exd_3kv_2lb">-oxy-caption-repeat-on-next-pages</entry>
            <entry>
              <p id="p_ovv_dgk_54b">This can be used to enable table caption repetition on
                subsequent pages (when the table is long and it spans multiple pages). It only
                affects elements with the <codeph>table-caption</codeph> display.</p>
              <p id="p_pvv_dgk_54b">Also see the <xref href="#ch_css_extensions/entry_kln_yjv_2lb"
                  format="dita">-oxy-show-only-when-caption-repeated-on-next-pages</xref> property
                that can be applied on optional caption static content.</p>
            </entry>
            <entry><b>yes</b> | <b>no</b></entry>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
            <entry><b>yes</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row id="row_ijq_3hx_4lb">
            <entry>-oxy-changebar-offset</entry>
            <entry>Defines the distance between the text and the change bar. A positive distance is
              directed away from the column region and into the margin regardless of the
                <b>-oxy-change-bar-placement</b>. A negative distance is directed towards the
              content area.</entry>
            <entry><b>&lt;length></b> | <b>initial</b> | <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry><b>6pt</b></entry>
            <entry><b>yes</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row id="row_jjq_3hx_4lb">
            <entry>-oxy-changebar-placement</entry>
            <entry>This property determines where, relative to the column areas, the change bars
              will occur. </entry>
            <entry><b>start</b> | <b>end</b> | <b>left</b> | <b>right</b> | <b>inside</b> |
                <b>outside</b> | <b>alternate</b> | <b>initial</b> | <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry><b>left</b></entry>
            <entry><b>yes</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row id="row_ljq_3hx_4lb">
            <entry>-oxy-changebar-color</entry>
            <entry>Specifies the color of the change bar. </entry>
            <entry><b>&lt;color></b> | <b>initial</b> | <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry><b>black</b></entry>
            <entry><b>yes</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row id="row_hvh_f3x_4lb">
            <entry>-oxy-changebar-style</entry>
            <entry>Specifies the style of the change bar.</entry>
            <entry><b>&lt;border-style></b> | <b>initial</b> | <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry><b>solid</b></entry>
            <entry><b>yes</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row id="row_mjq_3hx_4lb">
            <entry>-oxy-changebar-width</entry>
            <entry>Specifies the thickness of the change bar.</entry>
            <entry><b>&lt;border-width></b> | <b>initial</b> | <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry><b>medium</b></entry>
            <entry><b>yes</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry id="entry_gv1_sjp_mfb">-oxy-column-break-after</entry>
            <entry>This can be used to either force or eliminate a column break between the matching
              element and the next sibling. Supported values are: <codeph>always</codeph> - to force
              the column break, or <codeph>avoid</codeph> - to keep the end of the matching element
              together with the next sibling beginning in the same column.</entry>
            <entry><b>always</b> | <b>auto</b> | <b>avoid</b> | <b>initial</b> |
              <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry><b>auto</b></entry>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry id="entry_cv1_sjp_mfb">-oxy-column-break-before</entry>
            <entry>This can be used to either force or eliminate a column break between the matching
              element and the previous sibling. Supported values are: <codeph>always</codeph> - to
              force the column break, or <codeph>avoid</codeph> - to keep the end of the previous
              sibling together with the beginning of the matching element in the same
              column.</entry>
            <entry><b>always</b> | <b>auto</b> | <b>avoid</b> | <b>initial</b> |
              <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry><b>auto</b></entry>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry id="entry_bv1_sjp_mfb">-oxy-column-break-inside</entry>
            <entry>This can be used to avoid column breaks inside the matching element. Use with
              care, if the element has large content, it may bleed out of the page. </entry>
            <entry><b>always</b> | <b>auto</b> | <b>avoid</b> | <b>initial</b> |
              <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry><b>auto</b></entry>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry id="oxy-crop-box">-oxy-crop-box</entry>
            <entry>Specifies the region where the content of the page will be cropped when displayed
              or printed.</entry>
            <entry><b>trim-box</b> | <b>bleed-box</b> | <b>media-box</b></entry>
            <entry><b>media-box</b></entry>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry id="oxy-crop-offset">-oxy-crop-offset</entry>
            <entry>Specifies an extended area outside the original region where the content of the
              page will be cropped when displayed or printed. Up to 4 values can be set
                (<codeph>top</codeph>, <codeph>right</codeph>, <codeph>bottom</codeph>,
                <codeph>left</codeph>), separated by spaces.</entry>
            <entry><b>&lt;length></b></entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry id="oxy-force-page-count">-oxy-force-page-count</entry>
            <entry>Used to impose a constraint on the number of pages in a page sequence. It may
              increase the total number of pages from the page sequence by adding blank
                pages.<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_qvv_dgk_54b">@page chapter-page {
	-oxy-force-page-count: end-on-even;
}</codeblock><p id="p_abv_mtf_dpb">
                <dl id="dl_yfz_m2f_dpb">
                  <dlentry id="dlentry_bbv_mtf_dpb">
                    <dt>auto</dt>
                    <dd>
                      <p id="p_cbv_mtf_dpb">Force the last page in this page-sequence to be an
                        odd-page if the initial-page-number of the next page-sequence is even. Force
                        it to be an even-page if the initial-page-number of the next page-sequence
                        is odd. If there is no next page-sequence or if the value of its
                        initial-page-number is "auto", do not force any page. </p>
                    </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry id="dlentry_dbv_mtf_dpb">
                    <dt>even</dt>
                    <dd>
                      <p id="p_ebv_mtf_dpb">Force an even number of pages in this page-sequence.</p>
                    </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry id="dlentry_fbv_mtf_dpb">
                    <dt>odd</dt>
                    <dd>
                      <p id="p_gbv_mtf_dpb">Force an odd number of pages in this page-sequence.</p>
                    </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry id="dlentry_hbv_mtf_dpb">
                    <dt>end-on-even</dt>
                    <dd>
                      <p id="p_ibv_mtf_dpb">Force the last page in this page-sequence to be an
                        even-page. </p>
                    </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry id="dlentry_jbv_mtf_dpb">
                    <dt>end-on-odd</dt>
                    <dd>
                      <p id="p_kbv_mtf_dpb">Force the last page in this page-sequence to be an
                        odd-page. </p>
                    </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry id="dlentry_lbv_mtf_dpb">
                    <dt>no-force</dt>
                    <dd>
                      <p id="p_mbv_mtf_dpb">Do not force either an even or an odd number of pages in
                        this page-sequence.</p>
                    </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                </dl>
              </p></entry>
            <entry><b>auto</b> | <b>even</b> | <b>odd</b> | <b>end-on-even</b> | <b>end-on-odd</b> |
                <b>no-force</b> | <b>inherit</b> | <b>initial</b> | <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry><b>auto</b></entry>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>-oxy-foreground-image</entry>
            <entry>This can be used to define a foreground image that will be displayed above the
              content, like a watermark.</entry>
            <entry><b>url()</b> | <b>none</b> | <b>inherit</b> | <b>initial</b> |
              <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry id="oxy-hyph-char">-oxy-hyphenation-character</entry>
            <entry>Used to specify the Unicode character to be presented when a hyphenation break
              occurs. To hide hyphens, use the space
              character.<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_rvv_dgk_54b">pre {
  -oxy-hyphenation-character: " ";
}</codeblock></entry>
            <entry><b>&lt;character></b> | <b>inherit</b> | <b>initial</b> | <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry><b>U+00AD</b></entry>
            <entry><b>yes</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry id="oxy-hyph-push-char">-oxy-hyphenation-push-character-count</entry>
            <entry>Used to specify the minimum number of characters in a hyphenated word after the
              hyphenation character (the minimum number of characters in the word pushed to the next
              line).<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_svv_dgk_54b">p {
  -oxy-hyphenation-push-character-count: "2";
}</codeblock></entry>
            <entry><b>&lt;number></b> | <b>inherit</b> | <b>initial</b> | <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry><b>2</b></entry>
            <entry><b>yes</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry id="oxy-hyph-remain-char">-oxy-hyphenation-remain-character-count</entry>
            <entry>Used to specify the minimum number of characters in a hyphenated word before the
              hyphenation character (the minimum number of characters in the word left on the line
              ending with the hyphenation
              character).<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_tvv_dgk_54b">p {
  -oxy-hyphenation-remain-character-count: "2";
}</codeblock></entry>
            <entry><b>&lt;number></b> | <b>inherit</b> | <b>initial</b> | <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry><b>2</b></entry>
            <entry><b>yes</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry id="oxy-initial-page-number">-oxy-initial-page-number</entry>
            <entry>Used to set the initial page number to be used on this particular page
              sequence.<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_uvv_dgk_54b">@page chapter-page {
	-oxy-initial-page-number: auto-odd;
}</codeblock></entry>
            <entry>
              <b>&lt;number></b> |<b>auto</b> | <b>auto-odd</b> | <b>auto-even</b> | <b>inherit</b>
              | <b>initial</b> | <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry><b>auto</b></entry>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>-oxy-link</entry>
            <entry>Used to create links in the PDF
              output.<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_vvv_dgk_54b">link {
  -oxy-link: attr(href);
}</codeblock></entry>
            <entry><b>none</b> | <b>url()</b> | <b>initial</b> | <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>-oxy-page-group</entry>
            <entry>Using the <b>start</b> value forces the creation of a new page group (sequence)
              even if the page before the element has the same name. The <b>auto</b> value uses the
              W3C algorithm normally, which would merge the current element with the open page
              sequence.<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_wvv_dgk_54b">chapter {
      -oxy-page-group:start;
      page: chapter;
}</codeblock></entry>
            <entry><b>start</b> | <b>auto</b> | <b>initial</b> | <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry><b>auto</b></entry>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>-oxy-pdf-meta-author</entry>
            <entry>Used to forward meta-information to the PDF. Represents the author of the
              publication.<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_xvv_dgk_54b">meta[name='author'] {
  -oxy-pdf-meta-author: attr(value);
}</codeblock></entry>
            <entry><b>&lt;string></b> | <b>initial</b> | <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row id="row-custom-meta">
            <entry>-oxy-pdf-meta-custom</entry>
            <entry>Used to forward meta-information to the PDF. Represents a generic custom document
              property. Should have two strings, the name and the
              value.<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_yvv_dgk_54b">metadata {
  -oxy-pdf-meta-custom: attr(name) attr(value);
}</codeblock></entry>
            <entry><b>&lt;string></b> | <b>initial</b> | <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row id="row-copyright">
            <entry>-oxy-pdf-meta-copyright</entry>
            <entry>Specifies the copyright
              text.<codeblock outputclass="language-css" xml:space="preserve" id="codeblock_xkr_qlg_dqb">meta[name='copyright'] {
    -oxy-pdf-meta-copyright: attr(value);
}</codeblock></entry>
            <entry><b>&lt;string></b> | <b>initial</b> | <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row id="row-copyrighted">
            <entry>-oxy-pdf-meta-copyrighted</entry>
            <entry>Specifies whether or not the publication is copyrighted or from public
              domain.<codeblock outputclass="language-css" xml:space="preserve" id="codeblock_jqs_fng_dqb">:root {
    -oxy-pdf-meta-copyright: copyrighted;
}</codeblock></entry>
            <entry><b>copyrighted</b> | <b>public-domain</b> | <b>initial</b> | <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row id="row-copyright-url">
            <entry>-oxy-pdf-meta-copyright-url</entry>
            <entry>Specifies the location of the external copyright
              notice.<codeblock outputclass="language-css" xml:space="preserve" id="codeblock_jsh_jng_dqb">meta[name='copyright-url'] {
    -oxy-pdf-meta-copyright-url: attr(value);
}</codeblock></entry>
            <entry><b>&lt;string></b> | <b>initial</b> | <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>-oxy-pdf-meta-description</entry>
            <entry>Used to forward meta-information to the PDF. Represents the description of the
              publication.
              <codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_zvv_dgk_54b">meta[name='description'] {
  -oxy-pdf-meta-description: attr(value);
}</codeblock></entry>
            <entry><b>&lt;string></b> | <b>initial</b> | <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>-oxy-pdf-meta-keyword</entry>
            <entry>Used to forward meta-information to the PDF. Represents a single keyword from the
              publication. The processor should aggregate all keyword definitions and separate them
              by
              comma.<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_awv_dgk_54b">keyword {
  -oxy-pdf-meta-keyword: content(text);
}</codeblock></entry>
            <entry><b>&lt;string></b> | <b>initial</b> | <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>-oxy-pdf-meta-keywords</entry>
            <entry>Used to forward meta-information to the PDF. Represents the keywords of the
              publication. The value should contain the keywords separated by
              commas.<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_bwv_dgk_54b">meta[name='keywords'] {
  -oxy-pdf-meta-keywords: attr(value);
}</codeblock></entry>
            <entry><b>&lt;string></b> | <b>initial</b> | <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>-oxy-pdf-meta-title</entry>
            <entry>Used to forward meta-information to the PDF. Represents the title of the
              publication.
              <codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_cwv_dgk_54b">meta[name='title'] {
  -oxy-pdf-meta-title: attr(value);
}</codeblock></entry>
            <entry><b>&lt;string></b> | <b>initial</b> | <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>-oxy-pdf-table-omit-footer-at-break</entry>
            <entry>Flag that indicates if the table footer should be omitted after a page
              break.</entry>
            <entry><b>true</b> | <b>false</b> | <b>inherit</b> | <b>initial</b> |
              <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry><b>false</b></entry>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>-oxy-pdf-table-omit-header-at-break</entry>
            <entry>Flag that indicates if the table header should be omitted after a page
              break.</entry>
            <entry><b>true</b> | <b>false</b> | <b>inherit</b> | <b>initial</b> |
              <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry><b>false</b></entry>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>-oxy-pdf-viewer-display-filename</entry>
            <entry>Flag that indicates whether the PDF viewer should display the filename
                (<b>true</b>) or the document title (<b>false</b>) for the generated
              PDF.<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_tp5_sfd_xsb">:root {
  -oxy-pdf-viewer-display-filename: true;
}</codeblock></entry>
            <entry><b>true</b> | <b>false</b> | <b>initial</b> | <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry><b>false</b></entry>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>-oxy-pdf-viewer-fit-window</entry>
            <entry>Flag that specifies whether or not to resize the document’s window to fit it to
              the size of the first displayed
              page.<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_apw_nnn_kqb">:root {
  -oxy-pdf-viewer-fit-window: true;
}</codeblock></entry>
            <entry><b>true</b> | <b>false</b> | <b>initial</b> | <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry><b>false</b></entry>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>-oxy-pdf-viewer-hide-menubar</entry>
            <entry>Flag that indicates if the PDF viewer should hide its menu bar when opening the
              PDF
              document.<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_st2_lnn_kqb">:root {
  -oxy-pdf-viewer-hide-menubar: true;
}</codeblock></entry>
            <entry><b>true</b> | <b>false</b> | <b>initial</b> | <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry><b>false</b></entry>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>-oxy-pdf-viewer-hide-toolbar</entry>
            <entry>Flag that indicates whether or not the PDF viewer should hide its toolbar when
              opening the PDF
              document.<codeblock id="codeblock_ibc_3nn_kqb" outputclass="language-css">:root {
  -oxy-pdf-viewer-hide-toolbar: true;
}</codeblock></entry>
            <entry><b>true</b> | <b>false</b> | <b>initial</b> | <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry><b>false</b></entry>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row id="row_wwm_pf5_kqb">
            <entry>-oxy-pdf-viewer-page-layout</entry>
            <entry>Specifies the page layout to be used when the document is
                opened.<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_bdb_k4n_kqb">:root {
  -oxy-pdf-viewer-page-layout: one-column;
}</codeblock><p id="p_fvt_lzt_kqb">
                <dl id="dl_mwt_lzt_kqb">
                  <dlentry id="dlentry_nwt_lzt_kqb">
                    <dt>single-page</dt>
                    <dd>Displays one page at a time.</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry id="dlentry_owt_lzt_kqb">
                    <dt>one-column</dt>
                    <dd>Displays the pages in one column.</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry id="dlentry_pwt_lzt_kqb">
                    <dt>two-column-left</dt>
                    <dd>Displays the pages in two columns, with odd-numbered pages on the left.</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry id="dlentry_qwt_lzt_kqb">
                    <dt>two-column-right</dt>
                    <dd>Displays the pages in two columns, with odd-numbered pages on the right.
                    </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry id="dlentry_rwt_lzt_kqb">
                    <dt>two-page-left</dt>
                    <dd>Displays the pages two at a time, with odd-numbered pages on the left.</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry id="dlentry_swt_lzt_kqb">
                    <dt>two-page-right</dt>
                    <dd>Displays the pages two at a time, with odd-numbered pages on the right.</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                </dl>
              </p><note id="note_ghy_1vt_kqb">These values are similar to those from the PDF
                specification (the "Document Catalog/Page Layout" section).</note></entry>
            <entry><b>single-page</b> | <b>one-column</b> | <b>two-column-left</b> |
                <b>two-column-right</b> | <b>two-page-left</b> | <b>two-page-right</b> |
                <b>initial</b> | <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row id="row_izc_rf5_kqb">
            <entry>-oxy-pdf-viewer-page-mode</entry>
            <entry>Specifies which left-side view should be visible when the PDF document is opened,
              or if the document should be full screen. The <codeph>use-outlines</codeph> value
              refers to the bookmark
                tree.<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_z1n_h4n_kqb">:root {
  -oxy-pdf-viewer-page-mode: use-outlines;
}</codeblock><p id="p_usd_1zt_kqb">
                <dl id="dl_p12_15t_kqb">
                  <dlentry id="dlentry_xtd_1zt_kqb">
                    <dt>use-none</dt>
                    <dd>Neither document outlines nor thumbnail images are visible.</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry id="dlentry_ytd_1zt_kqb">
                    <dt>use-outlines</dt>
                    <dd>Document outlines (bookmarks) are visible.</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry id="dlentry_ztd_1zt_kqb">
                    <dt>use-thumbs</dt>
                    <dd>Thumbnail images are visible.</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry id="dlentry_a5d_1zt_kqb">
                    <dt>full-screen</dt>
                    <dd>Full-screen mode, with no menu bar, window controls, or any other window
                      visible.</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                </dl>
              </p><note id="note_h3p_55t_kqb">These values are similar to those from the PDF
                specification (the "Document Catalog/Page Mode" section).</note></entry>
            <entry><b>use-none</b> | <b>use-outlines</b> | <b>use-thumbs</b> | <b>full-screen</b> |
                <b>initial</b> | <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>-oxy-pdf-viewer-zoom</entry>
            <entry>A percentage or a fit value that indicates the zoom factor or the fitting factor
              of the PDF viewer.
              <codeblock id="codeblock_n54_2nn_kqb" outputclass="language-css">:root {
  -oxy-pdf-viewer-zoom: 125%;
}</codeblock><codeblock id="codeblock_bgd_r2d_xsb" outputclass="language-css">:root {
  -oxy-pdf-viewer-zoom: fit-height;
}</codeblock></entry>
            <entry><b>&lt;percentage></b> | <b>fit-page</b> | <b>fit-width</b> | <b>fit-height</b> |
                <b>initial</b> | <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>-oxy-pdf-tag-type</entry>
            <entry>Maps an element to a PDF accessibility tag.
              <codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_dwv_dgk_54b">section {
  -oxy-pdf-tag-type: "Sect";
}</codeblock></entry>
            <entry><b>&lt;string></b> | <b>initial</b> | <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>-oxy-scale</entry>
            <entry>Specifies a scale factor (on both the x and y axis) for the PDF output. If only
              one number is provided, it is used for both the x and y scales. A scale factor smaller
              than 1 shrinks the page. A scale factor greater than 1 enlarges the page.</entry>
            <entry><b>&lt;number></b></entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>-oxy-simulate-style</entry>
            <entry>
              <p id="p_ewv_dgk_54b">Set this flag to <b>yes</b> when the styles (bold, italic, or
                both) need to be simulated from a regular font. See: <xref
                  href="ch_using_simulated__synthetic__styles.dita"/>.</p>
            </entry>
            <entry><b>yes</b> | <b>no</b></entry>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
            <entry/>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>-oxy-space-after-conditionality</entry>
            <entry>Specifies whether the bottom margin (<codeph>margin-bottom</codeph> property) of
              an element should be kept or discarded.</entry>
            <entry><b>discard</b> | <b>retain</b> | <b>inherit</b> | <b>initial</b> |
              <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry><b>discard</b></entry>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>-oxy-space-before-conditionality</entry>
            <entry>Specifies whether the top margin (<codeph>margin-top</codeph> property) of an
              element should be kept or discarded.</entry>
            <entry><b>discard</b> | <b>retain</b> | <b>inherit</b> | <b>initial</b> |
              <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry><b>discard</b></entry>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>-oxy-style</entry>
            <entry>An Oxygen extension used to define additional styles for an element (for example,
              collected from an attribute).
              <codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_fwv_dgk_54b">div {
     font-weight:bold;
     color:red;
     -oxy-style:attr(style);
}</codeblock>The value of the style attribute from the div element is parsed as a
              collection of CSS properties and applied over the current element styles. For
              instance, if the style attribute has the value <codeph>color:green; border: 1pt solid
                red</codeph>, it will combine with the existing properties, resulting
              in:<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_gwv_dgk_54b">font-weight:bold; 
color:green;
border: 1pt solid red </codeblock></entry>
            <entry><b>CSS fragment</b></entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry id="entry_kln_yjv_2lb">-oxy-show-only-when-caption-repeated-on-next-pages</entry>
            <entry>
              <p id="p_hwv_dgk_54b">This property only affects a <codeph>:before</codeph> or
                  <codeph>:after</codeph> pseudo element that is associated with a table caption (an
                element with the table <codeph>caption</codeph> display marked with
                  <codeph>-oxy-caption-repeat-on-next-pages:yes</codeph>). It signals that the
                static content is to be used only when the caption is displayed the second time (on
                the subsequent pages), when the table is long and it spans multiple pages. Also see:
                  <xref href="#ch_css_extensions/entry_exd_3kv_2lb" format="dita"
                  >-oxy-caption-repeat-on-next-pages</xref>.</p>
            </entry>
            <entry><b>yes</b> | <b>no</b></entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
          </row>
          <row id="row_xsk_5nq_pwb">
            <entry>-oxy-video-cover</entry>
            <entry>This property can be used to set a cover image on videos. This image will appear
              as a placeholder in the PDF output. If it is not set, a default cover is used.</entry>
            <entry><b>none</b> | <b>url()</b> | <b>initial</b> | <b>unset</b></entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry><b>no</b></entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
    <note id="note_iwv_dgk_54b">The <b>initial</b> and <b>unset</b> values are not supported when applied to <xref
        href="ch_page_margin_boxes.dita"/>.</note>
  </body>
</topic>
