<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ch_chapters">
  <title>Chapter Page Placement and Styling</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Starting chapters on odd/even page</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Ending chapters on odd/even page</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Styling the first page of a chapter</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_hw5_dgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> provides specialized support to help you customize how chapters are
      handled in the output.</p>
    <section id="how_to_start_chapters_on_an_odd_or_even_page">
      <title>How to Start Chapters on an Odd or Even Page</title>
      <p id="p_iw5_dgk_54b">A common use case is to arrange the chapters of the publication to start on an odd page
        number so that in the printed output, the chapter starts on the right side of the book.</p>
      <p id="p_jw5_dgk_54b">By default, pages that have the same name are merged together in a single page sequence. If
        you want each of the chapters to have its own sequence, you can use the
          <codeph>-oxy-page-group:start</codeph> CSS property  to create separate page sequences.
        This allows you to control the start page of each of the chapters.</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_kw5_dgk_54b">.chapter {
	page: chapter-page;
	-oxy-page-group: start;
}</codeblock>
      <p id="p_lw5_dgk_54b">To specify which page the chapter should start on, you can use another CSS property, the
          <xref href="ch_css_extensions.dita#ch_css_extensions/oxy-initial-page-number"
            ><codeph>-oxy-initial-page-number</codeph> property</xref>:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_mw5_dgk_54b">@page chapter-page {
	-oxy-initial-page-number: auto-odd;
}
</codeblock>
      <p id="p_nw5_dgk_54b">Supported values for <codeph>-oxy-initial-page-number</codeph> are: <b>auto</b>,
          <b>auto-even</b>, <b>auto-odd</b>, <b>&lt;number></b>.</p>
      <p id="p_ow5_dgk_54b">Moving the chapter on a specific page number may create blank padding pages at the end of
        the previous page sequence. If you want to style those blank pages, use the
          <codeph>:blank</codeph> page selector:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_pw5_dgk_54b">@page :blank{
	@top-center{content:"Intentionally left blank"};
}
</codeblock>
    </section>
    <section id="how_to_end_chapters_on_an_odd_or_even_page">
      <title>How to End Chapters on an Odd or Even Page</title>
      <p id="p_qw5_dgk_54b">Another use case is to specify how a page sequence should end. If the sequence should have
        a total number of odd or even pages (or if it should end on an even or odd page).</p>
      <p id="p_rw5_dgk_54b">Suppose you have a table of contents that follows the cover page and you need to want to
        end up with an even number of pages.</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_sw5_dgk_54b">&lt;div class='toc'>Table of Contents..
</codeblock>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_tw5_dgk_54b">.toc {
	page: toc-page;
}
</codeblock>
      <p id="p_uw5_dgk_54b">Now you can use the <xref
          href="ch_css_extensions.dita#ch_css_extensions/oxy-force-page-count"
            ><codeph>-oxy-force-page-count</codeph> property</xref> with an <b>even</b> value:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_vw5_dgk_54b">@page toc-page {
	-oxy-force-page-count: even;
}
</codeblock>
      <p id="p_ww5_dgk_54b">Supported values for <codeph>-oxy-force-page-count</codeph> are: <b>even</b>, <b>odd</b>,
          <b>end-on-even</b>, <b>end-on-odd</b>, <b>auto</b>, <b>no-force</b>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="how_to_style_the_first_page_of_a_chapter">
      <title>How to Style the First Page of a Chapter</title>
      <p id="p_xw5_dgk_54b">You can use the <codeph>:first</codeph> page rule selector to control how the first page of
        a chapter will look. For example, suppose you do not want the header to appear on the
        chapter first page. Your CSS might look like this:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_yw5_dgk_54b">@page {
	@top-right-corner{content: counter(page);}
	@top-left{content: 'My Publication';}
}

.chapter {
	page: chapter-page;
	-oxy-page-group: start;
}

@page chapter-page:first {
	@top-right-corner{content: none;}
	@top-left{content: none;}
}</codeblock>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
