<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ch_graphics_videos">
    <title>Videos</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Graphics<indexterm>Videos</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_yjv_dgk_54b">This topic contains information about how you can reference videos from
      your HTML or XML documents.<note id="note_akn_vtk_qwb" type="warning">
        <ul id="ul_idx_wvk_qwb">
          <li>Only Acrobat Reader supports video embedding.</li>
          <li>Only the following extensions are supported: mov, mp4 and m4v.</li>
        </ul>
      </note><note id="note_anf_swh_rwb" type="tip">To process large video files, you need to
        increase the available memory (e.g. 3.5Gb of memory for a 2Gb video).</note></p>
    <p id="p_zjv_dgk_54b">For HTML, the <xmlelement>video</xmlelement> tag can be used without any
      other styling in your CSS
        files:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_akv_dgk_54b">...
&lt;video data="path/to/video.mp4" format="mp4" width="480" height="270">
    &lt;source src="path/to/video.mp4"/>
&lt;/video>
...</codeblock><note id="note_scp_wlq_pwb">It is recommended to use absolute paths for
          <xmlatt>data</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>src</xmlatt> values like this:
          <codeph>src="file:/C:/absolute/path/to/video.mp4"</codeph>.</note></p>
    <p id="p_bkv_dgk_54b">For XML, you must add CSS rules that pick up the content of an attribute
      and use it as a source for the
      video:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_ckv_dgk_54b">...
&lt;para&gt;Like shown in this video: &lt;video src="files/earth.mp4"/>.&lt;/para&gt;
...</codeblock>For example, the CSS rules may look like
        this:<codeblock id="codeblock_slf_4mq_pwb" outputclass="language-css">video {
  display: inline;
}
video[src] {
  content: attr(src, url);
}</codeblock><note id="note_acf_wmq_pwb">It is important to use the <codeph>url</codeph>
        keyword when retrieving the attribute value. It signals that the value is a pointer to an
        external image.</note></p>
    <section id="section_eyh_sxk_qwb">
      <title>Change the Video Size</title>
      <p>If your XML contains additional attributes such as <xmlatt>width</xmlatt> or
          <xmlatt>height</xmlatt>, you can complete the
          CSS:<codeblock id="codeblock_ecd_cnq_pwb" outputclass="language-css">video[width] {
  width: attr(width, length);
}
video[height] {
  height: attr(height, length);
}</codeblock><note id="note_vs3_mx4_pwb" type="other" othertype="Notes">
          <ul id="ul_wwj_gxk_qwb">
            <li>It is also possible to set both <xmlatt>width</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>height</xmlatt>
              attributes directly on the video <xmlelement>object</xmlelement>.</li>
            <li>If no values are set for width/height (neither from the CSS nor attributes), the
              extracted video size will be used.</li>
          </ul>
        </note></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_ask_hnq_pwb">
      <title>Customize Video Cover Placeholder</title>
      <p>By default, a placeholder is displayed in place of the video. When clicked, this
        placeholder will launch the video.</p>
      <p>It is possible to change this placeholder with a custom one by using the <xref
          href="ch_css_extensions.dita"><codeph>-oxy-video-cover</codeph></xref>
        property:<codeblock id="codeblock_yb1_3nq_pwb" outputclass="language-css">video {
  -oxy-video-cover: url("files/cover.png");
}</codeblock></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
