<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ch_graphics">
  <title>Graphics</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Graphics</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <topic id="ch_images">
    <title>Images</title>
    <prolog>
      <metadata>
        <keywords>
          <indexterm>Images</indexterm>
        </keywords>
      </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <body>
      <p>Images are very important in any printed material. This section contains information about
        how you can reference them from your HTML or XML documents.</p>
      <p>For HTML, the <codeph>img</codeph> tag is recognized as an image without any other styling
        in your CSS files:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">...
&lt;p> And this is the picture of a happy face: &lt;img src="happy.png" />. &lt;/p>
...</codeblock>
      <p>For XML, you must add CSS rules that pick up the content of an attribute and uses it as a
        source for an image.</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">...
&lt;para> And this is the picture of a happy face: &lt;imagedata fileref="happy.png"/>.&lt;/para>
...</codeblock>
      <p>The following example uses static content on the <codeph>imagedata</codeph> before pseudo
        element:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css">imagedata[fileref]:before {
    content: attr(fileref, url);
}</codeblock>
      <p>It is important to use the <codeph>url</codeph> keyword when retrieving the attribute
        value. It signals that the value is a pointer to an external image.</p>
    </body>
    <topic id="ch_setting_image_width_and_height">
      <title>Setting Image Width and Height</title>
      <body>
        <p>The image size can be determined from the number of pixels of the image, taking the <xref
            href="#ch_image_resolution" format="dita">image resolution</xref> into account (if
          available). There are cases where this computed size is not what you need, and you want to
          specify the size explicitly. </p>
        <p>For HTML, it is enough to use the image attributes directly in your document.</p>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;img src="my_image.png" width="300" height="250" /></codeblock>
        <p>For an arbitrary XML, you can indicate the image width and height through a rule that
          matches the element (or its pseudo elements <codeph>:before</codeph> or
            <codeph>:after</codeph>) and sets the <codeph>width</codeph> and <codeph>height</codeph>
          CSS properties.</p>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-css">imagedata {
    display: inline;
    content: attr(src, url);
    width: attr(width, length);
    height: attr(height, length);
}</codeblock>
        <p>Or, if you use an image as a decorator, you can specify fixed dimensions in the CSS:</p>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-css">chapter title:before {
    content: url("my_artwork.png");
    width: 300px;
}</codeblock>
        <p>
          <note>For static content as in the example above, <ph keyref="product"/> tries to use the
            width and height set on the pseudo element, then the ones that are set on the parent
            element, but only if the static content is composed of a single image. Mixing text and
            images in the <codeph>content</codeph> property disables the width and height
            specification.</note>
        </p>
        <p>If you want to limit the width of the images to a maximum size, you can use the
            <codeph>max-width</codeph> property. The image will be scaled down to fit the maximum
          size, if it is larger.</p>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-css">imagedata {
    ...
    content: attr(src, url);
    max-width: attr(width, length); 
    ...
}</codeblock>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="ch_background_images">
      <title>Background Images</title>
      <body>
        <p>You can use background images to impose a texture. You can use them to decorate an entire
          page, or a specific element from your document. </p>
        <p>Supported properties:</p>
        <ul id="ul_vxc_wkc_zz">
          <li><b>background-image</b></li>
          <li><b>background-repeat</b></li>
          <li><b>background-position</b></li>
        </ul>
        <section id="page_background_images">
          <title>Page Background Images</title>
          <p>You can set a background for a page. Usually you do this for the cover page to impose a
            full page artwork, or to add graphics to the header and footer of the page. Here is an
            example of how can you do it for the page:</p>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-css">@page cover {
    size:A4;
    margin:1in;    
    background-image:url("images/my_book_cover_artwork.png");
    background-repeat:no-repeat;
}

div.cover {
    page: cover;
}</codeblock>
          <p>
            <note>It is better to use SVG for the page artworks. It does not suffer from pixelation.
              If you are limited to using raster images, you can fine tune their resolution by using
              the <xref href="#ch_image_resolution" format="dita">image-resolution</xref>
              property.</note>
            <note>To separate the header and footer from the main content using visual effects
              (lines, shadows, etc.), you can use a full page size artwork in SVG and set it to the
              default
              page:<codeblock outputclass="language-css">@page {
    background-image:url("images/my_header_footer_artwork.svg");
    background-repeat:no-repeat;
}</codeblock></note>
          </p>
          <p>If your artwork is smaller, consider a "DRAFT" watermark (for instance). You should use
            the <codeph>background-position</codeph> to place it where you need:</p>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-css">@page {
    ...
    background-image:url("images/draft.svg");
    background-position: bottom center;
    ...
}</codeblock>
        </section>
        <section id="element_background_images">
          <title>Element Background Images</title>
          <p>You can style the background of your elements as you do for web pages:</p>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-css">section {
    background-image: url("my_repeating_pattern.svg");
    background-repeat: repeat-y;
}</codeblock>
        </section>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="ch_image_resolution">
      <title>Image Resolution</title>
      <body>
        <p>Some raster images (pixels, not vector) may have a default resolution, set by the
          designer, using an image editing software. Usually the image size and resolution are set
          to look best on the screen. The advantage of a resolution set in the image itself it is
          that it will have the same effective size on the screen and on paper. For example, if the
          image has 144 dots in width, and an embedded resolution of 72dpi, it will be two inches on
          screen and on paper.</p>
        <p>The problems start to arise when the resolution is not set in the image, and the PDF
          processor has to decide what resolution to use to determine the size of the graphic. To
          solve this, the processor extracts the DPI from:</p>
        <ul id="ol_tyf_cnz_xz">
          <li>The <codeph>image-resolution</codeph> CSS property associated to the element that
            contains the image.</li>
          <li>The command-line parameter <codeph>-image-resolution</codeph> .</li>
          <li>The built-in fallback resolution of 96 DPI.</li>
        </ul>
        <p>The recommended way to change this is by using the CSS Level 4
            <codeph>image-resolution</codeph> property:</p>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-css">img {
    image-resolution: 300dpi;
}</codeblock>
        <note>The <codeph>image-resolution</codeph> is inheritable, so you can associate it on the
          root element. It does not apply on the page generated content (margin
          boxes).<codeblock outputclass="language-css">:root {
    image-resolution: 300dpi;
}</codeblock>To
          reset the image resolution to the one set in the image itself, you can use the constant
            <codeph>from-image</codeph> instead of a DPI value:
          <codeblock outputclass="language-css">title:before {
    content: url("chapter-decorator.png");
    image-resolution: from-image;
}</codeblock></note>
        <note>To change the resolution for images that appear in a page margin box, set this
          property on that margin box, or directly on the @page rule, to apply to all page margin
          boxes:<codeblock outputclass="language-css">@page front-page {
    image-resolution: 600dpi;
}

@page {
    @top-center {
        image-resolution: 600dpi;
        content: url("company-logo.png");
    }
}</codeblock></note>
      </body>
      <related-links>
        <linklist>
          <title>Related Information:</title>
          <link href="ch_command_line_interface.dita"/>
          <link format="html" href="https://drafts.csswg.org/css-images-4/#the-image-resolution"
            scope="external"/>
        </linklist>
      </related-links>
    </topic>
    <topic id="ch_supported_image_types">
      <title>Supported Image Types</title>
      <body>
        <p><ph keyref="product"/> supports the following raster image types:</p>
        <ul id="ul_qyb_mkz_xz">
          <li>BMP (Microsoft Windows Bitmap)</li>
          <li>GIF (Graphics Interchange Format)</li>
          <li>JPEG (Joint Photographic Experts Group)</li>
          <li>PNG (Portable Network Graphic)</li>
          <li>TIFF (Tag Image Format File)</li>
        </ul>
        <p>And the following vector images:</p>
        <ul id="ul_mpy_x33_b1b">
          <li>SVG (Scalable Vector Graphics)</li>
          <li>WMF (Windows Metafile)</li>
          <li>PDF (PDF Documents)</li>
        </ul>
        <section id="pdf_images">
          <title>PDF Images</title>
          <p>You can reference PDF images the same way other image files are referenced:</p>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;img src="my_doc.pdf"/></codeblock>
          <p>To point to a single page from your PDF document, use the following syntax (this
            example points to page 5):</p>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;img src="my_doc.pdf#page=5"/></codeblock>
        </section>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="ch_svg">
      <title>SVG</title>
      <prolog>
        <metadata>
          <keywords>
            <indexterm>SVG</indexterm>
          </keywords>
        </metadata>
      </prolog>
      <body>
        <p><ph keyref="product"/> supports SVG images. The advantage of using SVG is that the image
          looks good on paper.</p>
        <section id="section_b1s_vk1_yz">
          <title>SVG Referenced or Embedded into the Document</title>
          <p>These can be either referenced as external resources:</p>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;p> This is an SVG showing a happy face: &lt;img src="happy.svg"/>&lt;/p></codeblock>
          <p>Or embedded into the document, as SVG fragments:</p>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;p> This is a red circle: 
   &lt;svg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox="0 0 50 50" width="50" height="50">
       &lt;circle cx="25" cy="25" r="10" fill="#F00" />
   &lt;/svg>
&lt;/p></codeblock>
          <note>No styling is required to show the embedded SVG in the output. It works
            automatically for HTML or other XML.</note>
          <note>For HTML5, the namespace declaration is not required.</note>
        </section>
        <section id="section_m2s_yk1_yz">
          <title>Using SVG for Styling</title>
          <p>To use it to decorate an element:</p>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-css">div.note:before {
    content:url("images/note.svg");
}</codeblock>
          <p>To set an SVG image as background of a page, or a page margin box:</p>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-css">@page coverpage{
    background-image: url("images/clipart.svg");
    background-repeat:no-repeat;
    background-position:center center;
    
    @top-left {
        background-image: url("images/company.svg");
        background-repeat:no-repeat;
    }
}</codeblock>
          <note>The <codeph>image-resolution</codeph> CSS property does not apply for SVG
            vectors.</note>
        </section>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="ch_mathml">
      <title>MathML</title>
      <prolog>
        <metadata>
          <keywords>
            <indexterm>MathML</indexterm>
          </keywords>
        </metadata>
      </prolog>
      <body>
        <p>MathML equations can be either referenced from the document as external resources (the
          file should be ending with the "mml" extension):</p>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;p> The quadratic formula: &lt;img src="quadratic.mml"/>&lt;/p></codeblock>
        <p>Or embedded directly in the document:</p>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">  &lt;p> The quadratic formula:
   &lt;math>
    &lt;mi>x&lt;/mi>
    &lt;mo>=&lt;/mo>
    &lt;mfrac>
     &lt;mrow>
      &lt;mo form="prefix">−&lt;/mo> &lt;mi>b&lt;/mi>
      &lt;mo>±&lt;/mo>
      &lt;msqrt>
       &lt;msup> &lt;mi>b&lt;/mi> &lt;mn>2&lt;/mn> &lt;/msup>
       &lt;mo>−&lt;/mo>
       &lt;mn>4&lt;/mn> &lt;mo>⁢&lt;/mo> &lt;mi>a&lt;/mi> &lt;mo>⁢&lt;/mo> &lt;mi>c&lt;/mi>
      &lt;/msqrt>
     &lt;/mrow>
     &lt;mrow>
      &lt;mn>2&lt;/mn> &lt;mo>⁢&lt;/mo> &lt;mi>a&lt;/mi>
     &lt;/mrow>
    &lt;/mfrac>
   &lt;/math>
  &lt;/p></codeblock>
        <note>No styling is required to show the embedded MathML in the output. It works
          automatically for HTML or other XML.</note>
        <note>For HTML5 the namespace declaration is not required.</note>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="ch_supported_colors">
      <title>Supported Colors</title>
      <body>
        <p>Along with the usual color values, <ph keyref="product"/> supports the following special
          values for all the color properties:</p>
        <ul id="ul_qyb_mkz_xz">
          <li><b>rgb</b> - Used to specify red, green, and blue components (for example,
              <codeph>color="rgb(255 , 0 , 153)"</codeph>).</li>
          <li><b>rbga</b> - Used for transparent colors by specifying each color channel and the
            transparency. For example, the following would result in the background color being
            magenta since the red color from the parent <codeph>div</codeph> element will be visible
            through the blue color of the <codeph>p</codeph>
            element:<codeblock outputclass="language-css">div{
  background-color:rgba(255,0,0,0.3)
}
p{
  background-color:rgba(0,0,255,0.3)
}</codeblock></li>
        </ul>
        <p>For more information about color properties, see <xref
            href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value" format="html"
            scope="external">MDN Web Docs: Color</xref>.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
</topic>
