<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ch_hyphenation">
  <title>Hyphenation</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Hyphenation</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>The CSS <codeph>hyphens</codeph> property specifies how the words should be hyphenated when
      the paragraph text wraps on multiple lines. </p>
    <p>The accepted values are:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>manual</dt>
          <dd>Words are only hyphenated when there are characters inside the word that explicitly
            suggest hyphenation opportunities. Those characters are:<p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>U+2010 (HYPHEN) -</dt>
                  <dd>The "hard" hyphen character indicates a visible line break opportunity. The
                    hyphen is always shown in the output.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>U+00AD (SHY)</dt>
                  <dd>An invisible, "soft" hyphen. This character is not rendered visibly. It marks
                    a breaking place for the word if hyphenation is necessary. You can use
                      <codeph>&amp;#xAD;</codeph> in XML or <codeph>&amp;shy;</codeph> in HTML.</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>auto</dt>
          <dd>Words are hyphenated automatically according to an algorithm driven by a hyphenation
            dictionary. Also, <ph keyref="product"/> uses an aggressive technique to create
            hyphenation points at underscores, dots, and case changes. This is useful when your
            publication contains snippets of code (Java, etc). To disable this functionality, you
            can use the <xref
              href="ch_command_line_interface.dita#ch_command_line_interface/no-aggressive-hyphenation"
                ><codeph>-no-aggressive-hyphenation</codeph> parameter</xref>.<note>The element, or
              one of its parents, must have a <codeph>lang</codeph> or <codeph>xml:lang</codeph>
              attribute present for the processor to identify the hyphenation dictionary. If this is
              missing, the <codeph>manual</codeph> hyphenation is
              performed.<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;table <b>lang="en"</b>>
...
&lt;/table></codeblock></note></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>none</dt>
          <dd>Currently not supported by <ph keyref="product"/> and it falls back to
              <codeph>manual</codeph>. If your document does not use the <codeph>HYPHEN</codeph> or
              <codeph>SHY</codeph> characters, no hyphenation is done.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
    <p><b><u>Example: Hyphenation</u></b></p>
    <p>To perform hyphenation on all paragraphs from an HTML document, you can
      use:<codeblock outputclass="language-css">p {
  hyphens: auto;
}</codeblock></p>
    <p>Usually, it is best to activate hyphenation for elements that are known to have a limited
      width (for example, on tables) where long words could bleed out of the
      bounds:<codeblock outputclass="language-css">table {
  hyphens: auto;
}</codeblock></p>
    <section id="section_lmc_135_qbb">
      <title>Hyphenation Dictionaries</title>
      <p><ph keyref="product"/> provides built-in hyphenation patterns for the following
          languages:<table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1">
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="75pt" align="center"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="200pt"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>Code</entry>
                <entry>Language</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>da</entry>
                <entry>Danish</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>de</entry>
                <entry>German</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>de_CH</entry>
                <entry>German (Switzerland) </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>en</entry>
                <entry>English</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>en-GB</entry>
                <entry>English (Great Britain)</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>es</entry>
                <entry>Spanish</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>fr</entry>
                <entry>French</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>it</entry>
                <entry>Italian</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>nb</entry>
                <entry>Norwegian Bokmål</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>nl</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>Dutch</p>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>ro</entry>
                <entry>Romanian</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>ru</entry>
                <entry>Russian</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>sv</entry>
                <entry>Swedish</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>th</entry>
                <entry>Thai</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>pt</entry>
                <entry>Portuguese</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>da</entry>
                <entry>Danish</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table></p>
      <p>The built-in hyphenation pattern license terms are listed in the XML files in the
          <filepath>[CHEMISTRY_INSTALL_DIR]/config/hyph</filepath> folder. Most of them comply with
        the LaTex distribution policy.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_qq2_tnz_qbb">
      <title>Installing New Hyphenation Dictionaries</title>
      <p>The hyphenation dictionaries are located in:
          <filepath>[CHEMISTRY_INSTALL_DIR]/config/hyph</filepath>. The <filepath>.xml</filepath>
        files allow you to read the licensing terms. The <filepath>.hyp</filepath> files are the
        compiled dictionaries that <ph keyref="product"/> actually uses. </p>
      <p><ph keyref="product"/> uses the TeX hyphenation dictionaries converted to XML by the
          <codeph>OFFO</codeph> project: <xref href="https://sourceforge.net/projects/offo/"
          format="html" scope="external"/>.</p>
      <p>One simple way to add more dictionaries:<ol>
          <li><xref href="https://sourceforge.net/projects/offo/files/" format="html"
              scope="external">Download and extract the
                <filepath>offo-hyphenation-compiled.zip</filepath></xref> file.</li>
          <li>Copy the <codeph>fop-hyph.jar</codeph> file to the
              <filepath>[CHEMISTRY_INSTALL_DIR]/lib</filepath> directory.</li>
          <li>If you just need a single dictionary, extract the corresponding <codeph>.hyp</codeph>
            file from that jar file and place it in the
              <filepath>[CHEMISTRY_INSTALL_DIR]config/hyph</filepath> directory.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
