<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ch_how_to_apply_to_directory">
  <title>How To Apply Chemistry on Multiple Files</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Transform multiple files</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_atv_dgk_54b">It is possible to use <ph keyref="product"/> to transform multiple files in a directory at
      once. This can be done by using a particular script, depending on your operating system.</p>
    <p id="p_btv_dgk_54b">The following examples assume that you <xref href="ch_installing.dita#ch_installing"
        >installed <ph keyref="product"/> and modified the <codeph>PATH</codeph> environment
        variable to include the installation directory</xref>. Also, you can change the
        <b>INPUT_DIR</b>, <b>CSS</b>, and <b>*xml</b> file pattern according to your needs.</p>
    <p id="p_ctv_dgk_54b">
      <ul id="ul_dtv_dgk_54b">
        <li id="li_etv_dgk_54b"><u><b>Windows</b></u><ol id="ol_ftv_dgk_54b">
            <li id="li_gtv_dgk_54b">Create a <filepath>.bat</filepath> file with the following
              content:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini" id="codeblock_htv_dgk_54b">@echo off

rem This is the input directory
set "INPUT_DIR=C:\some\input\directory"
rem This is the CSS used to style the xml documents.
set "CSS=C:\some\css\file"

rem Iterate all the files (%%f) that match the "*.xml" pattern in the input directory.   
for /f "usebackq delims=|" %%f in (`dir /b "%INPUT_DIR%\*.xml"`) 
do chemistry.bat -in %INPUT_DIR%%%f -css %CSS% -out %INPUT_DIR%%%f.pdf</codeblock></li>
            <li id="li_itv_dgk_54b">Run the <filepath>.bat</filepath> file from a command prompt.</li>
          </ol></li>
        <li id="li_jtv_dgk_54b"><u><b>Linux/macOS</b></u><ol id="ol_ktv_dgk_54b">
            <li id="li_ltv_dgk_54b">Create a script with the following
              content:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini" id="codeblock_mtv_dgk_54b">#!/bin/sh
# This is the input directory
INPUT_DIR=/some/input/directory"
# This is the CSS used to style the xml documents.
CSS=/some/css/file"
# Iterate all the files ($f) that match the "*.xml" pattern in the input directory.   
for f in $INPUT_DIR/*.xml; do chemistry.sh -in $f -out $f.pdf -css $CSS ; done</codeblock></li>
            <li id="li_ntv_dgk_54b">Run the script from the Terminal application.</li>
          </ol></li>
      </ul>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
