<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ch_how_to_alter_a_hyphenation_dictionary">
  <title>How to Alter a Hyphenation Dictionary</title>
  <body>
    <p product="chemistry" id="p_bjt_cgk_54b">The hyphenation dictionaries are stored as XML files in the
        <filepath>[CHEMISTRY_INSTALL_DIR]/config/hyph</filepath> directory. </p>
    <p product="pdf-css ope" id="p_cjt_cgk_54b">The hyphenation dictionaries are stored as XML files in the
        <filepath>[OPE_INSTALL_DIR]/plugins/com.oxygenxml.pdf.css/lib/oxygen-pdf-chemistry/config/hyph</filepath>
      directory. </p>
    <p id="p_djt_cgk_54b">You can copy the dictionaries you need to change in another directory,
      then use the <codeph product="chemistry">-hyph-dir</codeph><codeph product="ope pdf-css"
        >args.hyph.dir</codeph> parameter to refer it inside your transformation.</p>
    <p id="p_ejt_cgk_54b">Each file is named with the language code and has the following structure:</p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_fjt_cgk_54b">&lt;hyphenation-info>

&lt;hyphen-min before="2" after="3"/>

&lt;exceptions>
o-mni-bus
...
&lt;/exceptions>

&lt;patterns>
préémi3nent.
proémi3nent.
surémi3nent.
....
&lt;/patterns>

&lt;/hyphenation-info></codeblock>
    <p id="p_gjt_cgk_54b">To change the behavior of the hyphenation, you can modify either the patterns or the
      exceptions sections:<dl id="dl_hjt_cgk_54b">
        <dlentry id="dlentry_ijt_cgk_54b">
          <dt>exceptions</dt>
          <dd>Contains the list of words that are not processed using the patterns, each on a single
            line. Each of the words should indicate the hyphenation points using the hyphen ("-")
            character. If a word does not contain this character, it will not be hyphenated.<p
              id="p_jjt_cgk_54b">For example, <codeph>o-mni-bus</codeph> will match the
                <codeph>omnibus</codeph> word and will indicate two possible hyphenation points.
              </p><note id="note_kjt_cgk_54b">Compound words (i.e. e-mail) cannot be controlled by
              exception words.</note></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_ljt_cgk_54b">
          <dt>patterns</dt>
          <dd>Contains the list of patterns, each on a single line. A pattern is a word fragment,
            not a word. The numbers from the patterns indicate how desirable a hyphen is at that
            position. <p id="p_mjt_cgk_54b">For example, <codeph>tran3s2act</codeph> indicates that
              the possible hyphenation points are "<i>tran-s-act</i>" and the preferable point is
              the first one, having the higher score of "3".</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </body>
</topic>
