<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ch_internationalization">
  <title>Localization</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Internationalization</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <topic id="ch_choosing_the_fonts">
    <title>Choosing the Fonts</title>
    <body>
      <p id="p_upv_dgk_54b">An important step in making sure your document is published properly in multiple scripts
        (languages) is choosing a font that covers the entire set of characters from that script
        (language).</p>
      <p id="p_vpv_dgk_54b">However, you can specify a series of font families (using the CSS
          <codeph>font-family</codeph> property) that are used as fall-backs. If a word cannot be
        rendered using the first specified font, the processor tries the next font family, and so
        on. The following example uses some common fonts available in Windows to make a CSS
        stylesheet capable of properly displaying a large number of languages, from all European to
        Asian languages:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_wpv_dgk_54b">* {
    font-family: Calibri, SimSun, "Malgun Gothic";	
}</codeblock>
      <p id="p_xpv_dgk_54b">Assigning a font for all the elements, and not relying on <xref
          href="ch_fonts.dita#ch_fonts">basic fonts</xref>, makes the document <xref
          href="ch_accessibility.dita">accessible</xref>.<note id="note_ypv_dgk_54b">If your CSS does not assign a font to
          a part of your document, then the following sequence of fonts is used: <codeph>Serif,
            Times, Times New Roman, DejaVu Serif, Symbol, SimSun, MingLiU, MS Mincho, Batang,
            Vijaya, Noto Serif CJK SC, Noto Serif CJK JP, Noto Serif CJK KR, Arial Unicode
            MS</codeph>. This combination covers a wide character range, but the final result
          depends on the fonts from this list available on your OS. If a word contains a character
          that is not found in the current font, the fallback font list is iterated until one that
          supports all the word characters is found.</note></p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="ch_suport_for_right_to_left_languages">
    <title>Support for Right-to-Left Languages</title>
    <prolog>
      <metadata>
        <keywords>
          <indexterm>Right to left languages</indexterm>
        </keywords>
      </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <body>
      <p id="p_zpv_dgk_54b">The Unicode BIDI algorithm is applied automatically. For the best results in HTML, make
        sure you mark the right-to-left content, or the left-to-right content embedded in
        right-to-left, with proper direction attributes:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_aqv_dgk_54b">&lt;p dir='rtl'>SOME ARABIC TEXT &lt;p dir='ltr'>Some latin words.&lt;/p>.&lt;/p></codeblock>
      <p id="p_bqv_dgk_54b">For arbitrary XML, use the <codeph>unicode-bidi</codeph> and <codeph>direction</codeph> CSS
        properties:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_cqv_dgk_54b">&lt;para dir='right-to-left'>SOME ARABIC TEXT.&lt;/p></codeblock>
      <p id="p_dqv_dgk_54b">CSS:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_eqv_dgk_54b">para[dir='right-to-left'] { 
    direction: rtl; 
    unicode-bidi: embed; 
} </codeblock>
      <note id="note_fqv_dgk_54b">There are built-in rules in <ph keyref="product"/> that automatically match the
          <xmlatt>dir</xmlatt> attribute in any XML vocabulary with the same semantic as for HTML.
        The accepted values are: <b>ltr</b>, <b>rtl</b>, <b>auto</b>. If you use other attribute
        names or other values for this attribute, you should add CSS rules similar to the one
        above.</note>
      <p id="p_gqv_dgk_54b">For elements in a right-to-left context, <ph keyref="product"/> automatically switches the
        left borders, paddings, and margins with the ones from the right. This keeps your CSS as
        simple as possible. </p>
      <p id="p_hqv_dgk_54b">In the following example, the <xmlelement>p</xmlelement> element has a left border.</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_iqv_dgk_54b">p {
    border-left: 1pt solid orange;
}</codeblock>
      <p id="p_jqv_dgk_54b">Suppose it is placed in a <xmlelement>div</xmlelement> with the default <codeph>ltr</codeph>
        direction. The orange line is painted in its left border. But if it is placed in a
        <xmlelement>div</xmlelement> with the <codeph>rtl</codeph> direction, the orange line will be
        painted in its right border because that is where the text begins.</p>
      <note id="note_kqv_dgk_54b">To disable this behavior, you may use the <xref
          href="ch_command_line_interface.dita#ch_command_line_interface/no-rtl-mirroring"/>
        command-line parameter.</note>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="ch_changing_labels_depending_on_language">
    <title>Changing Labels Depending on Language</title>
    <prolog>
      <metadata>
        <keywords>
          <indexterm>Localization</indexterm>
        </keywords>
      </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <body>
      <p id="p_lqv_dgk_54b">When developing a CSS that will apply to output localized for multiple languages, you
        should consider changing the static text (CSS generated) depending on the language. </p>
      <note id="note_mqv_dgk_54b">Your document must use the <codeph>xml:lang</codeph> or <codeph>lang</codeph> attributes
        to specify the content language, ideally on the root element. The value must be specified
        using a language identifier (such as "en", "en-US", "en-CA", "fr", "fr-CA").</note>
      <p id="p_nqv_dgk_54b">Consider a case where all the chapter titles are prefixes with the word
        "Chapter", followed by the figure counter. Depending on the language of the XML/HTML
        document, you need this word to change to: "<term>Kapitel</term>" for German, or to
          "<term>Chapitre</term>" for French. </p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_oqv_dgk_54b">&lt;div class='chp'>
    &lt;h2>Introduction&lt;/h2>
... 
&lt;/dif></codeblock>
      <p id="p_pqv_dgk_54b">The CSS may be written starting with a default rule that will be used when the content has
        languages other than the ones that are expected (for example, in English):</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_qqv_dgk_54b">div.chp > h2:before{
    content: "Chapter " counter(chp);
}</codeblock>
      <p id="p_rqv_dgk_54b">Next, write rules for each of the specific languages:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_sqv_dgk_54b">div.chp > h2:lang(de):before{
    content: "Kapitel " counter(chp);
}
div.chp > h2:lang(fr):before{
    content: "Chapitre " counter(chp);
}</codeblock>
      <p id="p_tqv_dgk_54b">
        <note type="tip" id="note_uqv_dgk_54b">A good practice is to keep all the static text for a specific language in a
          separate CSS.</note>
      </p>
      <p id="p_vqv_dgk_54b">To make the maintenance easier, you can separate the strings from the counter value by
        using one of the advanced features of <ph keyref="product"/> (<xref
          href="ch_advanced_styling_multiple_before_and_after_pseudo_elements.dita">the
            <codeph>:before</codeph> and <codeph>:after</codeph> pseudo-elements with multiple
          levels</xref>). So you could write the default rule as:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_wqv_dgk_54b">div.chp > h2:before(2){
    content: "Chapter ";
}
div.chp > h2:before(1){
    content: counter(chp);
}</codeblock>
      <p id="p_xqv_dgk_54b">Now, the more specific rules are more simple:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_yqv_dgk_54b">div.chp > h2:lang(de):before(2){
    content: "Kapitel ";
}
div.chp > h2:lang(fr):before(2){
    content: "Chapitre ";
}</codeblock>
      <note type="warning" id="note_zqv_dgk_54b">The multiple-level pseudo-elements are non-standard features, and might
        not work if you switch to another processor.</note>
    </body>
  </topic>
</topic>
