<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ch_metadata">
  <title>Metadata</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Metadata</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_ecv_dgk_54b">PDF files may contain metadata. Metadata provides additional information about a certain
      document, such as its title, author, organization, creation date, format, or copyright.</p>
    <p id="p_fcv_dgk_54b">HTML defines the <codeph>meta</codeph> element for keeping track of information that
      describes your content. Most of this information should migrate to the PDF document
      properties. The property values may be either <i>static</i> (specified directly from the CSS)
      or <i>dynamic</i> (collected from the document) using the following functions:<ul
        id="ul_cy3_b2j_wz">
        <li id="li_gcv_dgk_54b"><b>content(text)</b></li>
        <li id="li_hcv_dgk_54b"><b>attr()</b></li>
        <li id="li_icv_dgk_54b"><b>oxy_xpath()</b></li>
      </ul></p>
    <section id="section_aqz_j2j_wz">
      <title>Predefined Meta Fields</title>
      <p id="p_jcv_dgk_54b">Examples of common metadata:<ul id="ul_plc_sz3_wz">
          <li id="li_kcv_dgk_54b">Publication title</li>
          <li id="li_lcv_dgk_54b">Author</li>
          <li id="li_mcv_dgk_54b">Keywords</li>
          <li id="li_ncv_dgk_54b">Short description</li>
          <li>Copyright information</li>
        </ul><ph keyref="product"/> automatically extracts this information from HTML documents.</p>
      <p id="p_ocv_dgk_54b">Suppose that you have the following arbitrary XML document:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_pcv_dgk_54b">&lt;doc>
     &lt;title>Publication title&lt;/title>
     &lt;meta name='keywords' content='software, network'>
     &lt;meta name='description' content='This is a publication about software products...'>
     &lt;meta name='author' content='John, jo@mysite.example.com'>
     &lt;meta name='copyright' content='Copyright My Company 2021'>

...</codeblock>
      <p id="p_qcv_dgk_54b">You could use any of the following CSS selectors to extract the metadata:</p>
      <p id="p_rcv_dgk_54b">
        <dl id="dl_scv_dgk_54b">
          <dlentry id="dlentry_tcv_dgk_54b">
            <dt>-oxy-pdf-meta-title</dt>
            <dd>It is used to extract the publication title. You can use it by matching the
              <xmlelement>title</xmlelement>
              element:<codeblock outputclass="language-css" xml:space="preserve" id="codeblock_ucv_dgk_54b">title {
    -oxy-pdf-meta-title: content(text);
}</codeblock></dd>
            <dd>
              <p id="p_vcv_dgk_54b">If this CSS selector matches multiple elements, only the first element in the
                document order will be used to extract the title.</p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_wcv_dgk_54b">
            <dt>-oxy-pdf-meta-author</dt>
            <dd>It is used to extract the publication author. You can use it by matching the
              <xmlelement>meta</xmlelement> element with the attribute
              <codeph>name='author'</codeph>:<codeblock outputclass="language-css" xml:space="preserve" id="codeblock_xcv_dgk_54b">meta[name='author'] {
    -oxy-pdf-meta-author: attr(content);
}</codeblock></dd>
            <dd>
              <p id="p_ycv_dgk_54b">If this CSS selector matches multiple elements, only the first element in the
                document order will be used to extract the author.</p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_zcv_dgk_54b">
            <dt>-oxy-pdf-meta-description</dt>
            <dd>It is used to extract the publication description. You can use it by matching the
              <xmlelement>meta</xmlelement> element with the attribute <codeph>name='description'</codeph>
              or
              <codeph>name='description'</codeph>:<codeblock outputclass="language-css" xml:space="preserve" id="codeblock_adv_dgk_54b">meta[name='description'], 
meta[name='subject'] {
    -oxy-pdf-meta-description: attr(content);
}</codeblock></dd>
            <dd>
              <p id="p_bdv_dgk_54b">If this CSS selector matches multiple elements, only the first element in the
                document order will be used to extract the description.</p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_cdv_dgk_54b">
            <dt>-oxy-pdf-meta-keywords</dt>
            <dd>It is used to extract the publication keywords. For example, you can use it by
              matching the <xmlelement>meta</xmlelement> element with the attribute
                <codeph>name='keywords'</codeph>. Its value should be a list of tokens, separated by
              commas:<codeblock outputclass="language-css" xml:space="preserve" id="codeblock_ddv_dgk_54b">meta[name='keywords'] {
    -oxy-pdf-meta-keywords: attr(content);
}</codeblock></dd>
            <dd>
              <p id="p_edv_dgk_54b">If this CSS selector matches multiple elements, only the first element in the
                document order will be used to extract the keywords.</p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_fdv_dgk_54b">
            <dt>-oxy-pdf-meta-keyword</dt>
            <dd>It is used to extract a single keyword. Individual keywords are accumulated from
              elements that match the CSS rule that uses this property and then concatenated into a
              single string. This single string is then set in the PDF 'keywords' section. For
              example, if you mark keywords in your HTML document with a span with a "kw" class, you
              can collect them all by
              using:<codeblock outputclass="language-css" xml:space="preserve" id="codeblock_gdv_dgk_54b">span.kw {
    -oxy-pdf-meta-keyword: content(text);
}</codeblock></dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
      <p>
        <dl id="dl_wkr_qlg_dqb">
          <dlentry>
            <dt>-oxy-pdf-meta-copyright</dt>
            <dt>-oxy-pdf-meta-copyrighted</dt>
            <dt>-oxy-pdf-meta-copyright-url</dt>
            <dd>These properties define the copyright metadata. Acrobat Reader Pro, for example,
              displays this in the <uicontrol>Details</uicontrol> tab of the
                <uicontrol>File/Document Properties</uicontrol> dialog
              box.<codeblock outputclass="language-css" xml:space="preserve" id="codeblock_xkr_qlg_dqb">meta[name='copyright'] {
    -oxy-pdf-meta-copyright: attr(content);
    -oxy-pdf-meta-copyrighted: copyrighted;
    -oxy-pdf-meta-copyright-url: "https://my.company/copyright-notice.html";
}</codeblock>The <codeph>-oxy-pdf-meta-copyright</codeph> property specifies the
              copyright text for its value, the <codeph>-oxy-pdf-meta-copyrighted</codeph> property
              specifies whether or not the publication is copyrighted (accepts only
                <codeph>copyrighted</codeph> or <codeph>public-domain</codeph> for the value), and
              the <codeph>-oxy-pdf-meta-copyright-url</codeph> property can be used to specify the
              location of an external copyright notice.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_lxd_42j_wz">
      <title>Custom Meta Fields</title>
      <p id="p_hdv_dgk_54b">Metadata is not restricted to the above cases. You may have custom
        metadata fields. It is usually displayed in a tabular format (for example, in Acrobat Reader
        ™, it is in the <uicontrol>Custom</uicontrol> tab in the <uicontrol>Properties</uicontrol>
        dialog box). </p>
      <p id="p_idv_dgk_54b">
        <dl id="dl_jdv_dgk_54b">
          <dlentry id="dlentry_kdv_dgk_54b">
            <dt>-oxy-pdf-meta-custom</dt>
            <dd>This property defines a list of pairs. Each pair contains the name and the value for
              the meta information field. The pairs must be separated by a comma: <codeph>name1
                value1, name2 value2</codeph></dd>
            <dd>In the following example, all the HTML meta tags are dumped as custom meta fields in
              the PDF:<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_ldv_dgk_54b">meta {
    -oxy-pdf-meta-custom: attr(name) attr(content);
}</codeblock>If you have a span that defines the document creation date somewhere in
              the document content, you can use:</dd>
            <dd>
              <codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_mdv_dgk_54b">span.created {
    -oxy-pdf-meta-custom: "CreationDate" content(text);
} </codeblock>
            </dd>
            <dd>
              <p id="p_ndv_dgk_54b">In case of conflicts, when two or more elements trigger the setting of a meta field
                with the same name, only the first definition of a meta field will be used in the
                PDF output.</p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
