<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="ch_security_policy">
	<title>Security Policy Configuration</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Java security policy</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
	<taskbody>
		<context>
		<p>When running the product on a system where you do not control the input (XML files, CSS), you
        must take some steps to ensure that the transformation process does not access files outside
        the allowed locations, and does not connect to other hosts. Follow this procedure:</p>
		</context>
		<steps id="ol_xkf_xpr_hpb">
			<step>
				<cmd>Create a Java policy file. A sample Java policy file can be found in
						<filepath>config/chemistry.policy</filepath>. You can use this as it is or
					as a starting point to grant or revoke permissions. Follow the instructions from
					this file.</cmd>
			</step>
			<step>
        <cmd>Specify the Java policy file location (in URL or file path syntax) using the
            <codeph>-security-policy</codeph> command-line parameter:</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_bcb_pks_hpb">chemistry.bat -security-policy file:/some/path/to/chemistry.policy</codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
			<step>
        <cmd>By default, the font cache file is stored in the home directory, while the temporary
          files are stored in the system temp folder. It is recommended to specify a workspace
          directory where these files are to be stored. The sample policy file automatically sets
          read and write permissions on this folder.</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock id="codeblock_anc_q5r_hpb" outputclass="language-bourne">chemistry.bat \
		-security-policy file:/some/path/to/chemistry.policy \
		-security-workspace /path/to/dir</codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
			<step>
				<cmd>If your CSS files, images, fonts, or other resources are stored in a different
					folder than the one that contains the input file, you need to indicate those
					folders. </cmd>
				<info>
					<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_qvt_smy_4pb">chemistry.bat ... -security-resources-dir1 /path/to/resources \
                  -security-resources-dir2 /other/path/to/resources</codeblock>
				</info>
			</step>
			<step>
        <cmd>If you access resources, from another server, you have to give access to connections to
          it (note that Google fonts servers are already added to the policy file).</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_zl2_1ny_4pb">chemistry.bat ... -security-resources-host my.font.and.css.server:80</codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
		</steps>
	</taskbody>
	<related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link format="html"
        href="https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/security/PolicyFiles.html"
        scope="external">
        <linktext>Java SE: Default Policy Implementation and Policy File Syntax</linktext>
      </link>
    </linklist>
	</related-links>
</task>
