<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ch_setting_image_width_and_height">
  <title>Setting Image Width and Height</title>
  <body>
    <p>The image size can be determined from the number of pixels of the image, taking the <xref
        href="ch_image_resolution.dita">image resolution</xref> into account (if available). There
      are cases where this computed size is not what you need, and you want to specify the size
      explicitly. </p>
    <p>For HTML, it is enough to use the image attributes directly in your document.</p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;img src="my_image.png" width="300" height="250" /></codeblock>
    <p>For an arbitrary XML, you can indicate the image width and height through a rule that matches
      the element (or its pseudo elements <codeph>:before</codeph> or <codeph>:after</codeph>) and
      sets the <codeph>width</codeph> and <codeph>height</codeph> CSS properties.</p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-css">imagedata {
    display: inline;
    content: attr(src, url);
    width: attr(width, length);
    height: attr(height, length);
}</codeblock>
    <p>Or, if you use an image as a decorator, you can specify fixed dimensions in the CSS:</p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-css">chapter title:before {
    content: url("my_artwork.png");
    width: 300px;
}</codeblock>
    <p>
      <note>For static content as in the example above, <ph keyref="product"/> tries to use the
        width and height set on the pseudo element, then the ones that are set on the parent
        element, but only if the static content is composed of a single image. Mixing text and
        images in the <codeph>content</codeph> property disables the width and height
        specification.</note>
    </p>
    <p>If you want to limit the width of the images to a maximum size, you can use the
        <codeph>max-width</codeph> property. The image will be scaled down to fit the maximum size,
      if it is larger.</p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-css">imagedata {
    ...
    content: attr(src, url);
    max-width: attr(width, length); 
    ...
}</codeblock>
  </body>
</topic>
