<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ch_tables">
  <title>Tables</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Tables</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>This topic is of special interest in case you are creating a CSS stylesheet for a custom XML
      document. For HTML <ph keyref="product"/> already defines the needed selectors for the
        <codeph>table</codeph> element.</p>
    <p>Let's consider a table in an XML document:</p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;tbl>
    &lt;caption>A table.&lt;/caption>
    &lt;rw>
        &lt;c rspan="2"> Spans vertically &lt;/c>
        &lt;c> Other cell &lt;/c>
        &lt;c> Other cell &lt;/c>
    &lt;/rw>
    &lt;rw>
        &lt;c cspan="2"> Other cell, spanning to the right &lt;/c>
    &lt;/rw>
&lt;/tbl> </codeblock>
    <section id="section_lqt_v51_yz">
      <title>Defining Rows and Cells</title>
      <p>First, mark the <codeph>tbl</codeph> element as being a table:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css">tbl {
    display: table;
}</codeblock>
      <p>Next, the rows and cells:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css">rw {
    display: table-row;
}
c {
    display: table-cell;
}</codeblock>
    </section>
    <section id="section_hfr_pw1_yz">
      <title>Defining the Column and Row Span</title>
      <p>The processor needs to know how the cells are spanning multiple rows or columns. For these,
        there are available two properties: <codeph>table-column-span</codeph> and
          <codeph>table-row-span</codeph>.</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css">c[cspan] {
    table-column-span: attr(cspan, integer);
}
c[rspan] {
    table-row-span: attr(rspan, integer);
}</codeblock>
    </section>
    <section id="section_vjt_b3t_cbb">
      <title>Defining the Table Caption</title>
      <p>You can do this by using the <codeph>display:table-caption</codeph>. To change the position
        of the caption relative to the table grid, you need to use the <codeph>caption-side</codeph>
        property:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css">caption {
    display:table-caption;
    caption-side:bottom;
}</codeblock>
    </section>
    <section id="section_fpf_jx1_yz">
      <title>Repeating Headers and Footers</title>
      <p>The elements marked with one of the properties: <codeph>table-header-group</codeph> or
          <codeph>table-footer-group</codeph> are automatically repeated when a table is split over
        a sequence of pages. It is required that they contain only elements with the display
          <codeph>table-row</codeph>. </p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;tbl>
    &lt;head>
        &lt;rw>
            &lt;c> Name&lt;/c>
            &lt;c> Value &lt;/c>
        &lt;/rw>
    &lt;/head>
    &lt;body>
        &lt;rw> ... &lt;/rw>
        &lt;rw> ... &lt;/rw>
    &lt;/body>
&lt;/tbl> </codeblock>
      <p>The CSS:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css">head {
    display: table-header-group;
}
</codeblock>
    </section>
    <section id="section_sk5_1dl_zz">
      <title>Column Widths and Styles</title>
      <p><ph keyref="product"/> supports automatic layout of the tables. This means allocation of
        column widths is done automatic based on the content size. In the next example, the HTML
        table has automatic layout (this is also the default):</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css">table {
    table-layout:auto;
}</codeblock>
      <p>To switch to a fixed layout:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css">table {
    table-layout:fixed;
}</codeblock>
      <p>In case you use the fixed layout, and you are not satisfied with equal column widths, for
        HTML you should use the <codeph>style</codeph> attribute on the <codeph>col</codeph>
        element:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-xml"> &lt;table style="width:2in;">
        &lt;colgroup>
              &lt;col style="width: 40%; background-color:cyan"/>
              &lt;col style="width: 60%"/>
        &lt;/colgroup>
...</codeblock>
      <p>For arbitrary XML, you should set a display <codeph>table-column</codeph> to the element
        representing the column. Considering the following XML:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-xml"> &lt;tbl>
        &lt;colgr>
              &lt;column wd="30%"/>
              &lt;column wd="70%"/>
        &lt;/colgr>
...</codeblock>
      <p>The following CSS links the <codeph>wd</codeph> attribute to the width property and defines
        a different background for the first column.</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css">tbl { 
    disply:table; 
}
colgr { 
    display: table-column-group; 
}
column { 
    display: table-column; 
    width: attr(wd); 
}
column:first-of-type {
    background-color: yellow;
}
</codeblock>
      <p>Proportional column widths like the ones used in the CALS tables from DITA or Docbook are
        supported, but only when set in a <codeph>width</codeph> attribute on the column element
        (the one with display <codeph>table-column</codeph>):</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css">...
&lt;column width="3*"/>
&lt;column width="7*"/>
...</codeblock>
    </section>
    <section id="section_vlp_jjt_cbb">
      <title>Rotating tables</title>
      <p>There are cases in which you have large tables, and you need to rotate them to make them
        fit on your page. For instance the default page is portrait, but because you have a table
        with many columns, and thus very wide, it would bleed to the right of the page.</p>
      <p>There are two ways of doing this:<ol id="ol_gqs_tjt_cbb">
          <li>Associate a wider page - i.e. landscape - to the table that needs more space. The
            disadvantage is that the table will force a page break before and after
            it.<codeblock outputclass="language-css">@page landscape-page-for-large-tables {
    size: A4 landscape;
}

tbl {
  display: table;
  page: landscape-page-for-large-tables;
}</codeblock></li>
          <li>Rotate the table using the <codeph>transform</codeph> CSS property. The table will not
            create page breaks, but is susceptible of bleeding if its height exceeds the page
              width.<codeblock outputclass="language-css">tbl {
  display: table;
  width: 200pt;
  transform: rotate(90deg);
}</codeblock><note>The
              table needs to have <codeph>table-layout: fixed</codeph>, and a
              <codeph>width</codeph>.</note></li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
