<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ch_widows_and_orphans">
  <title>Page Breaks Between Lines: Widows and Orphans</title>
  <body>
    <p>There are cases where the page break is placed between paragraph lines. For aesthetic
      purposes, it is required that at least several lines remain in the first (for example, the
      paragraph is not left with just a single line). Another constraint might be the number of
      lines that are moved to the next page. Again, it should avoid leaving just a single line.
        <xref href="https://www.w3.org/TR/2012/WD-css3-break-20120823/#best-breaks" scope="external"
        format="html">CSS defines two properties</xref> for this type of control:</p>
    <p><ol id="ol_ag5_hzm_vz">
        <li>The <codeph>orphans</codeph> property specifies the minimum number of line boxes that
          should be left in a paragraph before the page break occurs. </li>
        <li>The <codeph>widows</codeph> property specifies the minimum number of line boxes of a
          block container that must be left in a paragraph created on the next page after a
          break.</li>
      </ol>The following example shows how to keep the paragraphs at least four lines on the page
      before the break, and two lines on the page following the break:</p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-css">p {
  orphans: 4;
  widows: 2;
}</codeblock>
    <p>
      <note>As a difference from the W3C standard, the widows and orphans CSS properties are applied
        to the lists as well (the default is 2). This means a list that spans consecutive pages will
        have either zero or at least 2 lines on each of the pages.</note>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
