<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="changing-user-interface-language">
  <title>Localizing the User Interface</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Localizing the user interface</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Change language for interface</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> comes with the following built-in languages: English, French, German,
      Japanese, and Dutch. To change the interface language, go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Global</uicontrol>
      </menucascade> preferences page, then choose the appropriate language from the
        <uicontrol>Language</uicontrol> drop-down menu.</p>
    <p>You can also localize the interface in another language by creating an interface localization
      file.</p>
    <section id="how_to_create_an_interface_localization_file">
      <title>How to Create an Interface Localization File</title>
      <p>You can change the language of the <ph><ph keyref="product"/></ph> user interface by
        creating an interface localization file:<ol>
          <li>Identify the code for the new language you want to translate the interface. It is
            composed from a language code (two or three lowercase letters that conform to the <xref
              href="http://www.loc.gov/standards/iso639-2/php/code_list.php" format="html"
              scope="external">ISO 639 standard</xref>), followed by an underscore character, and a
            region code (two or three uppercase letters that conform to the <xref
              href="http://www.chemie.fu-berlin.de/diverse/doc/ISO_3166.html" format="html"
              scope="external">ISO 3166 standard</xref>).</li>
          <li>Write an email to the <ph><ph keyref="product"/></ph> support team and ask them to
            send you the <filepath>translation.xml</filepath> sample file.</li>
          <li>Open the <filepath>translation.xml</filepath> file in <ph><ph keyref="product"/></ph>.
            The file contains all the interface messages that can be translated and is updated at
            every new release with the latest additions. Here is a small sample of its
            content:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;translation>
    &lt;languageList>
        &lt;language description="English" lang="en_US"/>
    &lt;/languageList>
    &lt;key value="New">
        &lt;comment>The File/New action. Creates a new document.&lt;/comment>
        &lt;val lang="en_US">New&lt;/val>
    &lt;/key>    
    &lt;key value="New_folder">
        &lt;comment>Creates a folder in the Project View.&lt;/comment>
        &lt;val lang="en_US">New Folder&lt;/val>
    &lt;/key>
    .....
&lt;/translation>    </codeblock></li>
          <li>Update the <codeph>language</codeph> element to reflect the new language. For example,
            set the <codeph>description</codeph> attribute to <codeph>Spanish</codeph> and the
              <codeph>lang</codeph> attribute to <codeph>es_ES</codeph>.</li>
          <li>For each <codeph>key</codeph> element, translate the <codeph>comment</codeph>
            (optional) and <codeph>val</codeph> elements. For example, set the <codeph>lang</codeph>
            attribute to <codeph>es_ES</codeph>.<note>After you are finished, the file should look
              like
              this:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;translation>
    &lt;languageList>
        &lt;language description="Español" lang="es_ES"/>
    &lt;/languageList>
    &lt;key value="New">
        &lt;comment>El Archivo / Nueva acción. Crea un nuevo documento.&lt;/comment>
        &lt;val lang="es_ES">Nuevo&lt;/val>
    &lt;/key>    
    &lt;key value="New_folder">
        &lt;comment>Crea una carpeta en la vista del proyecto.&lt;/comment>
        &lt;val lang="es_ES">Nueva carpeta&lt;/val>
    &lt;/key>
    .....
&lt;/translation></codeblock></note></li>
          <li><ph conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/Open-the-preferences-page"/>, go to
              <uicontrol>Global</uicontrol>, and select the <xref
              keyref="options_global/other-language"><uicontrol>Other language</uicontrol>
              option</xref>. Browse for the <filepath>translation.xml</filepath> file.</li>
          <li>Restart the application.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="adding_new_languages_to_the_interface">
      <title>Adding New Languages to the Interface</title>
      <p><ph keyref="product"/> provides a <term>plugin</term> extension is available in the <xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/oxygen_sdk.html" format="html" scope="external"><b>Oxygen
            SDK</b></xref> that provides the ability to contribute a new translation language to the
        interface. By using this <term>plugin</term> extension, you can bundle the new language
        translation and that new language will be available in the <xref
          href="preferences-global.dita#preferences-global/language"
            ><uicontrol>Languages</uicontrol> drop-down menu in the <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Global</uicontrol>
          </menucascade> preferences page</xref>.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
