<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="change-existing-framework">
  <title>Making Changes to an Existing Framework (Document Type)</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Framework customization<indexterm>Changing existing
          frameworks</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Changing existing frameworks</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_awz_cgk_54b">It is possible to make minor changes to an existing framework (document
      type) configuration, instead of creating a new one.</p>
    <p id="p_bwz_cgk_54b">The following procedure exemplifies how to achieve this for a specific
      use-case where an existing DITA framework is being changed so that the <uicontrol>Insert
        Image</uicontrol> Author mode action is available inside the <xmlelement>fig</xmlelement>
        element:<ol id="ol_cwz_cgk_54b">
        <li id="li_dwz_cgk_54b">If you do not already know the name of the framework, open a
          document from that framework, go to <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Window</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Show View</uicontrol>
          </menucascade> and select <uicontrol>Properties</uicontrol>. The name of the framework is
          listed in the <uicontrol>Document Type</uicontrol> entry. </li>
        <li id="li_ewz_cgk_54b"><ph
            conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/Open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to the <ph
            conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/preferences-document-type-association"/>, and
          locate your framework (for example, <b>DITA - Extension</b>).</li>
        <li id="li_fwz_cgk_54b">
          <p id="p_gwz_cgk_54b">If it is a built-in framework that has not already been
            extended/edited, it is recommended to use the <uicontrol>Extend</uicontrol> button to
            create an extension for it. If it has already been extended (for example, a document
            type with the name <b>DITA - Extension</b> has been extended), you can use the
              <uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol> button.</p>
          <p id="p_hwz_cgk_54b"><b>Step Result:</b> This opens the <xref
              href="the-document-type-dialog.dita"><uicontrol>Document Type</uicontrol>
              Configuration dialog box</xref> where you can define the set of rules and settings for
            your custom framework.</p>
        </li>
        <li id="li_jwz_cgk_54b">Configure the extension using the tabs on the bottom half of the
          dialog box. For our example of making the <uicontrol>Insert Image</uicontrol> Author mode
          action available inside the <xmlelement>fig</xmlelement> element:<ol id="ol_dmt_g5g_rgc">
            <li id="li_emt_g5g_rgc">Go to the <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> tab and then the
                <uicontrol>Actions</uicontrol> subtab.</li>
            <li id="li_qp4_35g_rgc">Locate the action named <uicontrol>insert.image</uicontrol> and
              edit it.</li>
            <li id="li_bfr_45g_rgc">Change the <uicontrol>Activation XPath</uicontrol> field to make
              the action available in contexts where the <xmlelement>fig</xmlelement> element is
              available:<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne">oxy:allows-child-element("", "class", " topic/image ") or oxy:allows-child-element("", "class", " topic/fig ")</codeblock></li>
          </ol></li>
        <li id="li_kwz_cgk_54b">
          <p id="p_lwz_cgk_54b">Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> to close the configuration dialog
            box and then <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> or <uicontrol>Apply</uicontrol> to save your
            changes.</p>
        </li>
      </ol></p>
  </body>
</topic>
