<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="checksum-mismatch-error">
  <title>Checksum Mismatch Error</title>
  <body>
    <p>A <i>Checksum Mismatch</i> error could happen if an operation that sends or retrieves
      information from the repository to the working copy is interrupted. This means that there is a
      problem with the synchronization between a local item and its corresponding remote item.</p>
    <p>If you encounter this error, try the following:<ol id="ol_rlq_w4c_lr">
        <li>Identify the parent directory of the file that caused the error (the file name should be
          displayed in the error message).<note>If the parent directory is the root of the working
            copy or if it contains a large amount of items it is recommended that you check out the
            working copy again, rather than continuing with the rest of this procedure.</note></li>
        <li>Identify the <xref href="working-copy-view.dita#working-copy-view/svn-depth-li">current
            depth</xref> of that directory.</li>
        <li>Update the parent directory using the <uicontrol>Update to revision/depth</uicontrol>
          action that is available from the contextual menu or the <uicontrol>Working
            copy</uicontrol> menu.<ol id="ol_q21_kpc_lr">
            <li>For the <uicontrol>Depth</uicontrol> option, select <uicontrol>This folder only
                (empty)</uicontrol>.<note type="warning">If you have files with changes in this
                directory, those changes could be lost. You should commit your changes or move the
                files to another directory outside the working copy prior to proceeding with this
                operation. </note></li>
          </ol></li>
        <li>After clicking <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> the contents of the directory will be erased
          and the directory is be marked as having <xref
            href="working-copy-view.dita#working-copy-view/svn-depth-li">an <term>empty</term>
            depth</xref>.</li>
        <li>Once again, update the same directory using the <uicontrol>Update to
            revision/depth</uicontrol> action.<ol id="ol_oyg_4qc_lr">
            <li>This time, for the <uicontrol>Depth</uicontrol> option, select the depth that was
              previously identified in step 2.</li>
          </ol></li>
        <li>If you moved modified files to another directory outside the working copy, move them
          back to the original location inside the working copy. </li>
      </ol></p>
    <p>If this procedure does not solve the error, you need to check out the working copy again and
      move possible changes from the old working copy to the new one.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
