<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="colors-and-styles-preferences">
  <title><?oxy_comment_start author="Mark" timestamp="20140903T142308-0400" comment="There are open issues relating to this setting. See issue #46."?>Colors
    and Styles Preferences<?oxy_comment_end?></title>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> lets you set the colors and styles used to display <xref
        keyref="options.editor.profiling">profiling / conditional text</xref> in the <xref
        keyref="mode.author">Author mode editor</xref>. To set Colors and Styles preferences, <ph
        conkeyref="reusable.menus/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Edit modes</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Profiling/Conditional Text</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Colors and Styles</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>.</p>
    <p>The central area of the page contains a table that lists two categories of profiling styles:<ul>
        <li><uicontrol>Defined attributes values</uicontrol> - contains the styles for profiling
          attribute values defined in the <xref
            href="preferences-profiling-conditions.dita#profiling.conditions" format="dita"
            >Profiling / Conditional Text</xref> preferences page. Each profiling attribute value
          has an associated style. To ease the process of customizing styles, the <uicontrol>Defined
            attributes values</uicontrol> category contains by default the list of empty styles. All
          you have to do is to adjust the colors and decorations, thus skipping the process of
          manually defining the association rules (document type, attribute name and value). This is
          the reason why a style from this category can only be <xref
            href="#colors-and-styles-preferences/reset_style" format="dita">reset</xref>, not
          deleted.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Other</uicontrol> - this category contains styles for attribute values that
          are not marked as profiling values, in the <xref
            href="preferences-profiling-conditions.dita#profiling.conditions" format="dita"
            >Profiling / Conditional Text</xref> preferences page. In this category are listed:<ul>
            <li>all the styles that were defined in other projects (with different profiling
              attribute value sets)</li>
            <li>all the styles set for the profiling attributes defined in a <xref
                href="subject-scheme-map.dita#topic_25s_2ph_md">subject scheme map</xref></li>
          </ul></li>
      </ul></p>
    <section id="add_style">
      <title>Adding a profiling style</title>
      <p>To add profiling styles use one of the following actions:<dl id="ul_vjj_x33_sn">
          <dlentry>
            <dt><uicontrol>Import from DITAVAL...</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>Allows you to import profiling styles from <filepath>.ditaval</filepath> files. You
              can merge these new profiling styles with the existing ones, or replace them
              completely. If the imported styles conflict with the existing ones, <ph
                keyref="product"/> displays a dialog box containing two tables: the first one
              previews the imported styles and the second one previews the already defined styles.
              You can choose either to keep the existing styles or replace them with the imported
              ones.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><uicontrol>Automatic styling</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>For every profiling attribute value that has no style defined, applies one of the
              following color or style: background, foreground, text decoration (underline,
              overline, double-underline) or text style (bold, italic).</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><uicontrol>New</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>Opens the<uicontrol>Add Profiling Style</uicontrol> dialog that allows you to
              associate a set of coloring and styling properties to a profiling value.<note>You can
                define a default style for a specific attribute by setting the <uicontrol>Attribute
                  value</uicontrol> field to <codeph>&lt;ANY&gt;</codeph>. This style is applied for
                attribute values that do not have a specific style associated with it.</note></dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl></p>
    </section>
    <section id="modify_style">
      <title>Modify a profiling style</title>
      <p>To modify an already defined style use one of the following actions:<ul id="ul_gcd_hg3_sn">
          <li>double click the style in the styles table to open the <uicontrol>Edit Profiling
              Style</uicontrol> dialog</li>
          <li>select the style in the styles table and press <uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol> to open the
              <uicontrol>Edit Profiling Style</uicontrol> dialog</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section id="reset_style">
      <title>Resetting a profiling style from <uicontrol>Defined attributes values</uicontrol>
        category</title>
      <p>To reset a style from the <uicontrol>Defined attributes values</uicontrol> category to its
        default (no color or decoration), select it and click the <uicontrol>Clear style</uicontrol>
        button.</p>
    </section>
    <section><title>Deleting a profiling style from <uicontrol>Other</uicontrol> category</title>To
      delete a style from the <uicontrol>Other</uicontrol> category, select it and click the
        <uicontrol>Delete</uicontrol> button.</section>
  </body>
</topic>
