<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="compress_css">
  <title>Minifying CSS Stylesheets</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>CSS stylesheets<indexterm>Minifying</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_qj2_cgk_54b"><i>Minification</i> (or <i>compression</i>) of a CSS document is the practice of removing
      unnecessary code without affecting the functionality of the stylesheet.</p>
    <p id="p_rj2_cgk_54b">To minify a CSS, invoke the contextual menu anywhere in the edited document and choose the
        <uicontrol>Minify CSS</uicontrol> action. <ph keyref="product"/> opens a dialog box that
      allows you to:<ul id="ul_sj2_cgk_54b">
        <li id="li_tj2_cgk_54b">Set the location of the resulting CSS.</li>
        <li id="li_uj2_cgk_54b">Place each style rule on a new line.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p id="p_vj2_cgk_54b">After pressing <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol>, <ph keyref="product"/> performs the following actions:<ul id="ul_wj2_cgk_54b">
        <li id="li_xj2_cgk_54b">All spaces are normalized (all leading and trailing spaces are removed, while sequences
          of white spaces are replaced with single space characters).</li>
        <li id="li_yj2_cgk_54b">All comments are removed.</li>
      </ul><note id="note_zj2_cgk_54b">The CSS minifier relies heavily upon the W3C CSS specification. If the content of
        the CSS file you are trying to minify does not conform with the specifications, an error
        dialog box will be displayed, listing all errors encountered during the
      processing.</note></p>
    <p id="p_ak2_cgk_54b">The resulting CSS stylesheet gains a lot in terms of execution
      performance, but loses in terms of readability. The source CSS document is left
        unaffected.<note id="note_bk2_cgk_54b">To restore the readability of a minified CSS, invoke
        the <uicontrol>Format and Indent</uicontrol> action from the <menucascade
          product="author developer editor json">
          <uicontrol>Document</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Source</uicontrol>
        </menucascade><uicontrol product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
          >XML</uicontrol> menu, the <uicontrol>Source</uicontrol> submenu from the contextual menu,
        or <uicontrol>Source</uicontrol> toolbar. However, this action will not recover any of the
        deleted comments.</note></p>
  </body>
</topic>
