<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="component_customization_example">
  <title>Example - Customizing the DITA Framework</title>
  <body>
    <p>If you look inside the <filepath>bundle-frameworks\oxygen-frameworks</filepath> folder
      distributed with the <xref href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/oxygen_sdk.html#oXygen_standalone_applet_integration"
        format="html" scope="external">Author Component sample project</xref>, it contains a
      document type framework folder. Customizations which affect the framework/document type
      configuration for the component should first be done in an Oxygen standalone installation.</p>
    <p>An Oxygen standalone installation comes with a <filepath>frameworks</filepath> folder which
      contains the <filepath>dita</filepath> framework located in
        <filepath>[OXYGEN_DIR]\frameworks\dita</filepath>. The <filepath>dita</filepath> framework
      contains a bundled <b>DITA-OT</b> distribution which contains the DTDs used for DITA editing.
      If your DTD specialization is a DITA OT plugin, it <xref keyref="dita.install-plugin">should
        be installed</xref> in the <filepath>[OXYGEN_DIR]\frameworks\dita\DITA-OT\plugins</filepath>
      folder. </p>
    <p>To make changes to the DITA document type configuration, <ph
        conkeyref="reusable.menus/open-the-preferences-page"/>
      <uicontrol>Document Type Association</uicontrol> page. These changes will affect the
        <filepath>[OXYGEN_DIR]\frameworks\dita\dita.framework</filepath> configuration file. </p>
    <p>After you do this you can re-pack the Author Component following the instructions from the README.html file located in the <b>oxygen-sample-applet</b> project. 
      The Author Component Sample Project and the Oxygen standalone
      installation should be of the same version. </p>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link keyref="customize.tutorial"/>
  </related-links>
</topic>
