<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="comparing-and-merging-documents">
  <title>Compare Files or Directories </title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Comparing files and directories</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_wv5_bgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> provides a simple means of performing file and folder comparisons. You can see the differences in your files and folders and merge the changes. You can also use the file comparison to compare fragments or files inside zip-based archives.</p>
    <p id="p_xv5_bgk_54b">There are two types of comparison tools: <uicontrol>Compare Directories</uicontrol> or <uicontrol>Compare Files</uicontrol>. These utilities<ph> are available from the <uicontrol>Tools</uicontrol> menu or</ph> can be opened as stand-alone applications from the <ph keyref="product"/> installation folder (<filepath>diffDirs.exe</filepath> and <filepath>diffFiles.exe</filepath>).</p>
    <section id="starting_the_tools_from_a_command_line">
      <title>Starting the Tools from a Command Line</title>
      <p id="p_yv5_bgk_54b">The comparison tools can also be started by using command-line
        arguments. In the installation folder there are two executable shells
          (<filepath>diffFiles.bat</filepath> and <filepath>diffDirs.bat</filepath> on Windows,
          <filepath>diffFiles.sh</filepath> and <filepath>diffDirs.sh</filepath> on macOS and
        Linux). These two shells can be used to start the comparison tools with the desired options.
        To specify files or directories to compare, you can pass command-line arguments to each of
        these shells. The arguments can point to file or folder paths in directories or archives
        (supported formats: <i>zip</i>, <i>docx</i>, and <i>xlsx</i>).</p>
      <sectiondiv><b>Directory Comparison Example</b><p id="p_zv5_bgk_54b">To start a <xref href="directories-comparison.dita#directories-comparison">comparison between the two directories</xref>, use the following construct:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini" id="codeblock_aw5_bgk_54b">diffDirs.bat/diffDirs.sh [directory path 1] [directory path 2]</codeblock>If you pass only one argument, you are prompted to manually choose the second directory or archive.</p><p id="p_bw5_bgk_54b">For example, to start a comparison between two Windows directories, use the following construct:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini" id="codeblock_cw5_bgk_54b">diffDirs.bat "c:\documents new" "c:\documents old"</codeblock><note type="tip" id="note_dw5_bgk_54b">If there are spaces in the path names, surround the paths with quotes.</note></p></sectiondiv>
      <sectiondiv><b>File Comparison Example</b><p id="p_ew5_bgk_54b">To start a <xref href="file-comparison.dita#file-comparison">comparison between 2 or 3 files</xref>, use the following construct: <codeph>diffFiles.bat/diffFiles.sh [path to left file] [path to right file] [path to base file]</codeph>.</p></sectiondiv>
      <p id="p_fw5_bgk_54b">If three files are specified, the tool will start in the <xref href="file-comparison.dita#file-comparison/threeway_comparisons">3-way comparison mode</xref>. If only two files are specified, the tool will start in the <xref href="file-comparison.dita#file-comparison/twoway_comparisons">2-way comparison mode</xref>. The first specified file will be added to the left panel in the comparison tool, the second file to the right panel, and the optional third file will be the base (ancestor) file used for a 3-way comparison. If you pass only one argument, you are prompted to manually choose another file.</p>
      <p id="p_gw5_bgk_54b">For example, to do a 3-way comparison on Windows, the command line would look like this:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini" id="codeblock_hw5_bgk_54b">diffFiles.bat "c:\docs\file 1" "c:\docs\file 2" c:\docs\basefile</codeblock><note type="tip" id="note_iw5_bgk_54b">The file comparison tool helps you to compare the contents of two files, or files within archives.</note></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
