<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="conditional_processing_to_generate_multiple_deliverables">
    <title>Conditional Processing to Generate Multiple Deliverables</title>
    <body>
        <p>
      <div><p>By default, the content of most elements is included in all output media. Within maps
          and topics, elements can specify the delivery targets to which they apply.</p><p>Within
          maps, topic references can use the <codeph>@deliveryTarget</codeph> attribute to indicate
          the delivery targets to which they apply. The map or topic references can still use the
          deprecated <codeph>@print</codeph> attribute to indicate whether they are applicable to
          print deliverables.</p><p>Within topics, most elements can use the
            <codeph>@deliveryTarget</codeph> attribute to indicate the delivery targets to which
          they apply.</p><p>If a referenced topic should be excluded from all output formats, set
          the <codeph>@processing-role</codeph> attribute to "resource-only" instead of using the
            <codeph>@deliveryTarget</codeph> or <codeph>@print</codeph> attribute. Content within
          that topic can still be referenced for display in other
            locations.</p><b><codeph>@deliveryTarget</codeph> attribute</b><p>
          <dl>
            <dlentry>
              <dt><codeph>@deliveryTarget</codeph></dt>
              <dd>The intended delivery target of the content, for example "html", "pdf", or "epub".
                This attribute is a replacement for the now deprecated <codeph>@print</codeph>
                  attribute.<p>The <codeph>@deliveryTarget</codeph> attribute is specialized from
                  the <codeph>@props</codeph> attribute. It is defined in the
                  deliveryTargetAttDomain, which is integrated into all OASIS-provided document-type
                  shells. If this domain is not integrated into a given document-type shell, the
                    <codeph>@deliveryTarget</codeph> attribute will not be available.</p></dd>
            </dlentry>
          </dl>
        </p><p>The <codeph>@deliveryTarget</codeph> attribute is processed the same way as any other
          conditional processing attribute. For example, the element <codeph>&lt;topicref
            deliveryTarget="html5 epub" href="example.dita"/></codeph> uses two values for
            <codeph>@deliveryTarget</codeph>. A conditional processing profile can then set rules
          for <codeph>@deliveryTarget</codeph> that determine whether the topic example.dita is
          included or excluded when the map is rendered as HTML5 or EPUB.</p></div>
    </p>
    </body>
</topic>
