<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="configure-exist-datasource">
  <title>How to Configure an eXist Connection Manually</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Databases<indexterm>Connections<indexterm>eXist<indexterm>Manual
                configuration</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>eXist database<indexterm>Manual configuration</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <note type="attention">For this manual procedure, you need to already have an eXist database
      server installed.</note>
    <note type="tip">There is an easier way to configure an eXist database connection using a
      built-in wizard. For more information, see <xref href="how-to-exist.dita"/>.</note>
    <section id="step_1_configure_exist_data_source_drivers">
      <title>Step 1: Configure eXist Data Source Drivers</title>
      <p><ph keyref="product"/> supports eXist database server versions up to and including version
        3.0 and 4.0. To configure a data source for an eXist database, follow these steps:<ol>
          <li><ph conkeyref="reusables-working-with-databases/open-ds"/>
          </li>
          <li><ph conkeyref="reusables-working-with-databases/click-new"/>
          </li>
          <li><ph conkeyref="reusables-working-with-databases/unique-name"/>
          </li>
          <li>Select <i>eXist</i> from the driver <uicontrol>Type</uicontrol> drop-down menu. </li>
          <li>Click the <uicontrol>Add Files</uicontrol> button to add the eXist driver files.
              <itemgroup>The following driver files should be added and they are found in the
              installation directory of the eXist database server. Make sure you copy the files from
              the installation of the eXist server where you want to connect from <ph
                keyref="product"/>.<p><b><u>eXist 3.x</u></b><ul>
                  <li><filepath>exist.jar</filepath></li>
                  <li><filepath>lib/core/xmldb.jar</filepath></li>
                  <li><filepath>lib/core/xmlrpc-client-3.1.x.jar</filepath></li>
                  <li><filepath>lib/core/xmlrpc-common-3.1.x.jar</filepath></li>
                  <li><filepath>lib/core/ws-commons-util-1.0.x.jar</filepath></li>
                  <li><filepath>lib/core/slf4j-api-1.x.x.jar</filepath> (if available)</li>
                  <li><filepath>lib/core/slf4j-log4j12-1.x.x.jar</filepath> (if available)</li>
                </ul></p><p><b><u>eXist 4.x</u></b><ul>
                  <li><filepath>exist.jar</filepath></li>
                  <li><filepath>lib/core/log4j-api-*.jar</filepath></li>
                  <li><filepath>lib/core/log4j-jul-*.jar</filepath></li>
                  <li><filepath>lib/core/log4j-slf4j-impl-*.jar</filepath></li>
                  <li><filepath>lib/core/slf4j-api-*.jar</filepath></li>
                  <li><filepath>lib/core/ws-commons-util-*.jar</filepath></li>
                  <li><filepath>lib/core/xmldb.jar</filepath></li>
                  <li><filepath>lib/core/xmlrpc-client-*.jar</filepath></li>
                  <li><filepath>lib/core/xmlrpc-common-*.jar</filepath></li>
                  <li><filepath>lib/core/j8fu-*.jar</filepath></li>
                </ul></p><p>The <codeph>*</codeph> represents the version
            number.</p></itemgroup></li>
          <li><ph conkeyref="reusables-working-with-databases/step6"/>
          </li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="step_2_configure_an_exist_connection">
      <title>Step 2: Configure an eXist Connection</title>
      <p>To configure a connection to an eXist database, follow these steps:<ol>
          <li><ph conkeyref="reusables-working-with-databases/open-ds"/></li>
          <li><ph conkeyref="reusables-working-with-databases/click-new-connection"/></li>
          <li><ph conkeyref="reusables-working-with-databases/unique-name-connection"/></li>
          <li>Select a previously configured eXist data source from the <uicontrol>Data
              Source</uicontrol> drop-down menu.</li>
          <li>Enter the connection details:<ol>
              <li>Set the URI to the installed eXist engine in the <uicontrol>XML DB URI</uicontrol>
                field.</li>
              <li>Set the user name in the <uicontrol>User</uicontrol> field.</li>
              <li>Set the password in the <uicontrol>Password</uicontrol> field.</li>
              <li>Enter the start collection in the <uicontrol>Collection</uicontrol> field.<p>eXist
                  organizes all documents in hierarchical collections. Collections are like
                  directories. They are used to group related documents together. This text field
                  allows the user to set the default collection name.</p></li>
            </ol></li>
          <li><ph conkeyref="reusables-working-with-databases/click-ok-connection"/></li>
          <li>To view your connection, go to the <xref
              href="relational-database-explorer.dita#relational-database-explorer"><uicontrol>Data
                Source Explorer</uicontrol> view</xref>
            <ph conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/reopen-view-parenthesis"/> or switch to the
              <uicontrol>Database</uicontrol>
            <xref keyref="glossentry_perspective"><term>perspective</term></xref>.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <p>For more information about running XQuery against an eXist XML database, watch our video
      demonstration:</p>
    <object width="450" height="250" data="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Yoc5h1zSddA"
      outputclass="iframe">
      <param name="allowfullscreen" value="true"/>
    </object>
  </body>
</topic>
