<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="constructing_url">
  <title>Adding an Edit Link in Your Interface</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Oxygen XML Web Author Component<indexterm>Add Edit link in your
            interface</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Add Edit link in your interface</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="webappProduct"/> can be launched to edit a file by simply following a link with a
      carefully built target. The base URL for the <uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol> link used to open the
      Web Author is the URL that you see in the browser when the <uicontrol>Dashboard</uicontrol>
      page is opened. </p>
    <example>
      <title>The base URL for oXygen XML Web Author demo deployment </title>
      <codeblock>https://www.oxygenxml.com/webapp-demo-aws/app/oxygen.html</codeblock>
    </example>
    <p>The information about the file to open and the options used to load the file can be specified
      as URL parameters:</p>
    <p>
      <table id="table_rxs_sxp_1z">
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Parameter name</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><apiname>url</apiname></entry>
              <entry>The <xref href="#constructing_url/oxy-url-p" format="dita"
                  ><term>OXY-URL</term></xref> of the file to be opened.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><apiname>ditamap</apiname></entry>
              <entry>For DITA files, the <term>OXY-URL</term> of the DITA Map to use as a context
                for resolving keys.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><apiname>trackChanges</apiname></entry>
              <entry>
                <p>
                  <dl>
                    <dlentry>
                      <dt>default</dt>
                      <dd>Whether or not changes are tracked depend on the server settings.</dd>
                    </dlentry>
                    <dlentry>
                      <dt>enabled</dt>
                      <dd>The changes are tracked by default but the user is able to disabled
                        it.</dd>
                    </dlentry>
                    <dlentry>
                      <dt>forced</dt>
                      <dd>The changes are tracked and the user cannot accept or reject changes made
                        by others.</dd>
                    </dlentry>
                  </dl>
                </p>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><apiname>author</apiname></entry>
              <entry>The name of the author</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </p>
    <p id="oxy-url-p">The <term>OXY-URL</term> uses a custom schema according to the file storage
      system the file comes from. <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>GitHub</dt>
          <dd>The URLs have the following
            format:<codeblock>github://getFileContent/&lt;user>/&lt;repo>/&lt;branch>/path/to/file.dita</codeblock></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Git</dt>
          <dd>The URLs have the following
            format:<codeblock>github://getFileList/&lt;encoded-repo-http-url>/&lt;branch>/path/to/file.dita</codeblock></dd>
          <dd>
            <p>where <codeph>encoded-repo-http-url</codeph> is the <codeph>http</codeph> URL of the
              git repository (for example:
                <codeph>https://user@bitbucket.org/user/flowers.git</codeph>).</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>WebDAV</dt>
          <dd>The URLs have the following
              format:<codeblock>webdav-https://dav.box.com/dav/path/to/file.dita</codeblock><p>where
              the WebDAV URL of the file is:
                <codeph>https://dav.box.com/dav/path/to/file.dita</codeph>.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>SharePoint</dt>
          <dd>The URL of the file is the SharePoint file URL, prefixed with
            <codeph>spo-</codeph>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>REST</dt>
          <dd>The URLs have the following
            format:<codeblock>rest://&lt;server-id>/path/to/file.dita</codeblock> The format can be
            further specified by the implementer of the REST API.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
