<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="control-text-direction-dfc">
  <title>Controlling the Text Direction Using the Unicode Direction Formatting Codes</title>
  <body>
    <p>These Unicode Direction Formatting Codes codes can be embedded in the edited text, specifying
      a text direction and embedding. However, it is not recommended to use them in XML as they are
      zero width characters, making it hard to debug the text arrangement.</p>
    <table frame="all">
      <title>Directional Formatting Codes</title>
      <tgroup cols="3">
        <colspec colname="c2" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
        <colspec colname="newCol2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
        <colspec colname="newCol4" colnum="3" colwidth="1*"/>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry>U+202A (LRE)</entry>
            <entry>LEFT-TO-RIGHT EMBEDDING</entry>
            <entry>Treats the following text as embedded left-to-right.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>U+202B (RLE)</entry>
            <entry>RIGHT-TO-LEFT EMBEDDING</entry>
            <entry>Treats the following text as embedded right to left.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>U+202D (LRO)</entry>
            <entry>LEFT-TO-RIGHT OVERRIDE</entry>
            <entry>Forces the following characters to be treated as strong left-to-right
              characters.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>U+202E (RLO)</entry>
            <entry>RIGHT-TO-LEFT OVERRIDE</entry>
            <entry>Forces the following characters to be treated as strong right-to-left
              characters.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>U+202C (PDF)</entry>
            <entry>POP DIRECTIONAL FORMATTING CODE</entry>
            <entry>Restores the bidirectional state to what it was before the last LRE, RLE, RLO, or
              LRO.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>U+200E (LRM)</entry>
            <entry>LEFT-TO-RIGHT MARK</entry>
            <entry>Left-to-right strong zero-width character.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>U+200F (RLM)</entry>
            <entry>RIGHT-TO-LEFT MARK</entry>
            <entry>Right-to-left strong zero-width character.</entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
    <p>To insert Unicode Direction Formatting Codes, use the <ph
        product="authorEclipse editorEclipse developerEclipse"><uicontrol>Symbols</uicontrol>
        toolbar action</ph><ph product="editor author developer"><xref
          href="unicode-toolbar.dita#unicode-toolbar"><uicontrol>Character Map</uicontrol></xref>
        dialog</ph>. To easily find such a code, you can either enter directly the hexadecimal
      value, or use the <uicontrol>Details</uicontrol> tab to enter the codes name.</p>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> offers the support for bi-directional text in all the side views
        (<uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol> view, <uicontrol>Attributes</uicontrol> view and so on) and
      text fields.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
