<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="control-text-direction-markup">
  <title>Controlling the Text Direction Using XML Markup</title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_x5y_bgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> Supports the following CSS properties that control the direction of
      text:</p>
    <table frame="all" colsep="1" rowsep="1" id="table_y5y_bgk_54b">
      <title>CSS Properties Controlling Text Direction</title>
      <tgroup cols="2">
        <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*" colsep="1" rowsep="1"/>
        <colspec colname="newCol2" colnum="2" colwidth="6.39*" colsep="1" rowsep="1"/>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry><b>direction</b></entry>
            <entry>Specifies the writing direction of the text. The possible values are <b>ltr</b>
              (the text direction is left to right), <b>rtl</b> (the text direction is right to
              left, and <b>inherit</b> (the direction property is inherited from the parent
              element). </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><b>unicodeBidi</b></entry>
            <entry>Used along with the <b>direction</b> property to create levels of embedded text
              with different text directions in the same document. The possible values of this
              property are <b>bidi-override</b> (creates an additional level of embedding and forces
              all strong characters to the direction specified in the <b>direction</b>),
                <b>embed</b> (creates an additional level of embedding), <b>normal</b> (does not use
              an additional level of embedding), and <b>inherit</b> (the value of the
                <b>unicodeBidi</b> property is inherited from parent element).</entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
    <p id="p_z5y_bgk_54b">For instance, to declare an element as being Right to Left, you could use a stylesheet like
      this:</p>
    <p id="p_avy_bgk_54b">XML
      File:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_bvy_bgk_54b">&lt;article>
  &lt;myRTLpara>RIGHT TO LEFT TEXT&lt;/myRTLPara>
&lt;/article></codeblock></p>
    <p id="p_cvy_bgk_54b">Associated CSS
      File:<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_dvy_bgk_54b">myRTLpara{
    direction:rtl;
    unicode-bidi:embed;
}</codeblock></p>
    <p id="p_evy_bgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> recognizes the <b>dir</b> attribute on any XML document. The supported
      values are:<table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_fvy_bgk_54b">
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="70pt" align="center"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="330pt"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Values</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><b>ltr</b></entry>
              <entry>The text from the current element is Left to Right, embedded.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><b>rtl</b></entry>
              <entry>The text from the current element is Right to Left, embedded.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><b>lro</b></entry>
              <entry>The text from the current element is Left to Right, embedded.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><b>rlo</b></entry>
              <entry>The text from the current element is Right to Left, embedded.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table></p>
    <p id="p_gvy_bgk_54b">The following XML document types make use of the <b>dir</b> attribute with the above
      values:</p>
    <ul id="ul_hvy_bgk_54b">
      <li id="li_ivy_bgk_54b">DITA</li>
      <li id="li_jvy_bgk_54b">DocBook</li>
      <li id="li_kvy_bgk_54b">TEI</li>
      <li id="li_lvy_bgk_54b">XHTML</li>
    </ul>
    <note id="note_mvy_bgk_54b">When the <xref keyref="glossentry_inline-element"><term>inline element</term></xref> tags
      are visible, the text in the line is arranged according to the BIDI algorithm after replacing
      the tags symbols with Object Replacement Characters. This makes it possible to get a different
      text arrangement when viewing a document in the <uicontrol>No Tags</uicontrol> mode versus
      viewing it in the <uicontrol>Full Tags</uicontrol> mode. </note>
  </body>
</topic>
