<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="content_fusion_user_interface">
    <title>Content Fusion Interface for Reviewers</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Reviewer Guide<indexterm>Content Fusion interface</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Content Fusion interface for Reviewers</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
    <body>
    <p>When you use a task link that is sent to you by the <b>Content Author</b>, the <ph
        keyref="product"/> interface is opened in your most recently used browser and the task
      details are displayed.</p>
    <p>When logged in as a <b>Reviewer</b>, the <ph keyref="product"/> interface includes the
      following options and components:</p>
    <p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry id="task-details">
          <dt>Task Details</dt>
          <dd>The main interface presents the task with all the attached files listed and a few
            options for communicating the <b>Content Author</b> or other <b>Reviewers.</b><p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Files to review</dt>
                  <dd>You can click on any of the files attached to the task to open it in Oxygen
                    XML Web Author. This is the editor that you will use to proofread, make changes,
                    and add comments in the files.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>LOOKS GOOD</dt>
                  <dd>You can click this button to send a predefined "Looks Good" message to the
                      <b>Content Author</b>. The most common use for this button is that it simply
                    offers a very quick way to let the <b>Content Author</b> know that all the files
                    have been reviewed and they look good without needing any changes.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>ADD MESSAGE</dt>
                  <dd>You can use this button to add messages to communicate with the <b>Content
                      Author</b> or other <b>Reviewers</b>.</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>User Name Menu</dt>
          <dd>Your user name is displayed in the top-right corner of the page. If you click on your
            name, you have access to the following options:<p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Profile</dt>
                  <dd>Opens your profile information page that displays your name, email, avatar,
                    and allows you to delete your profile.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>My Tasks</dt>
                  <dd>Displays a list of all the current tasks that you created and uploaded.
                    Clicking on a task name will open it in the <xref
                      href="#content_fusion_user_interface_author/details-tab" format="dita"
                        ><uicontrol>Details Tab</uicontrol></xref>.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Sign Out</dt>
                  <dd>Signs you out of the <ph keyref="product"/> interface.</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
