<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="content-completion-schema-annotations">
    <title>Schema Annotations</title>
    <body>
    <p>A schema annotation is a documentation snippet associated with the definition of an element
      or attribute in a schema. If such a schema is associated with an XML document, the annotations
      are displayed in:<ul>
        <li>the Content Completion Assistant.</li>
        <li>a small tooltip window shown when the mouse hovers over an element or attribute.<ph
            product="editor author developer"> The tooltip window can be invoked at any time using
            the <ph>F2</ph> shortcut.</ph></li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>The schema annotations support is available the schema type is one of the following: XML
      Schema, Relax NG, NVDL, or DTD. If you want to turn off this feature, disable the <xref
        href="preferences-content-completion-annotations.dita"><uicontrol>Show
          annotations</uicontrol></xref> option.</p>
    <section>
      <title>Styling Annotations with HTML</title>
      <p>You can use HTML format in the annotations you add in an XML Schema or Relax NG schema.
        This improves the visual appearance and readability of the documentation window displayed
        when editing XML documents validated against such a schema. An annotation is recognized and
        displayed as HTML if it contains at least one HTML element, like: <term>div</term>,
          <term>body</term>, <term>p</term>, <term>br</term>, <term>table</term>, <term>ul</term>,
        or <term>ol</term>. </p>
      <p>The HTML rendering is controlled by the <uicontrol>Show annotations using HTML format, if
          possible</uicontrol> option. When this options is disabled, the annotations are converted
        and displayed as plain text. If the annotation contains one or more HTML tags
          (<codeph>p</codeph>, <codeph>br</codeph>, <codeph>ul</codeph>, <codeph>li</codeph>), they
        are rendered as an HTML document loaded in a web browser: <codeph>p</codeph> begins a new
        paragraph, <codeph>br</codeph> breaks the current line, <codeph>ul</codeph> encloses a list
        of items, <codeph>li</codeph> encloses an item of the list.</p>
    </section>
    <section><title>Collecting Annotations from XML Schemas</title>In an XML Schema the annotations
      are specified in an <codeph>&lt;xs:annotation></codeph> element like
        this:<pre>&lt;xs:annotation>
  &lt;xs:documentation>
            Description of the element.
  &lt;/xs:documentation>
&lt;/xs:annotation></pre><p>For
        XML Schema, if an element or attribute does not have a specific annotation, then <ph
          keyref="product"/> looks for an annotation in the type definition of that element or
        attribute.</p></section>
    <section>
      <title>Collecting Annotations from Relax NG Schemas</title>
      <p>For Relax NG schema element / attribute annotation are made using the
          <codeph>&lt;documentation></codeph> element from the
          <codeph>http://relaxng.org/ns/compatibility/annotations/1.0</codeph> namespace. However,
        any element outside the Relax NG namespace
          (<codeph>http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0</codeph>) is handled as annotation and the
        text content is displayed in the annotation window. To activate this behaviour, enable the
          <xref
          href="preferences-content-completion-annotations.dita#preferences-content-completion-annotations/use_relax_ng_annotations"
            ><uicontrol>Use all Relax NG annotations as documentation</uicontrol></xref> option.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Collecting Annotation from DTDs</title>
      <p>For DTD <ph keyref="product"/> defines a custom mechanism for annotation using comments
        enabled from the option <xref href="preferences-content-completion-annotations.dita"><i>Use
            DTD comments as annotations</i></xref>. Following is an example of a DTD
        annotation:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;!--doc:Description of the element. --&gt;</codeblock></p>
    </section>
    </body>
</topic>
