<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="content-completion-set-schema">
    <title>Set Schema to be Used for Content Completion in Text Mode</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>specify schema for Content Completion</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
    <body>
        <p>The list of proposals in the <wintitle>Content Completion Assistant</wintitle> depend
      on the associated schemas. The DTD, XML Schema, Relax NG, or NVDL schema used to populate the
        <wintitle>Content Completion Assistant</wintitle> is specified in the following methods,
      in the order of their precedence:</p>
        <ul>
            <li>The schema specified explicitly in the document. In this case, <ph keyref="product"
        /> reads the beginning of the document and resolves the location of the DTD, XML Schema,
        Relax NG schema, or NVDL schema.</li>
            <li>The default schema declared in the <xref
          href="the-document-type-dialog.dita#the-document-type-dialog"><uicontrol>Document
            Type</uicontrol> configuration dialog box</xref> that matches the edited document.</li>
            <li product="editor editorEclipse developer developerEclipse">For XSLT stylesheets, the
        schema specified in the <ph keyref="product"/>
        <xref href="preferences-content-completion-xsl.dita">Content Completion options.</xref>
        <ph keyref="product"/> will read the content completion settings when the prolog fails to
        provide or resolve the location of a DTD, XML Schema, Relax NG, or NVDL schema.</li>
            <li product="editor editorEclipse developer developerEclipse">For XML Schemas, the
        schema specified in the <ph keyref="product"/>
        <xref href="preferences-content-completion-xsd.dita">Content Completion options.</xref>
        <ph keyref="product"/> will read the content completion settings and the specified schema
        will enhance the content completion inside the <codeph>xs:annotation/xs:appinfo</codeph>
        elements of the XML Schema.</li>
        </ul>
    </body>
</topic>
