<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="convert-db-to-xml-schema">
  <title>Converting Database to XML Schema</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>XML Schemas<indexterm>Convert DB Structure to XML Schema
          tool</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Convert database to XML Schema</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_sdd_cgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> includes a tool that allows you to create an XML Schema from the
      structure of a database.</p>
    <p id="p_tdd_cgk_54b">To convert a database structure to an XML Schema, use the following procedure:<ol id="ol_udd_cgk_54b">
        <li id="li_vdd_cgk_54b">
          <p id="p_wdd_cgk_54b">Select the <uicontrol>Convert DB Structure to XML Schema</uicontrol> action from the
              <uicontrol>Tools</uicontrol> menu.</p>
          <p id="p_xdd_cgk_54b"><b>Result:</b> The <uicontrol>Convert DB Structure to XML Schema</uicontrol> dialog box
            is opened and your current database connections are displayed in the
              <uicontrol>Connections</uicontrol> section.</p>
        </li>
        <li id="li_ydd_cgk_54b">If the database source is not listed, click the <uicontrol>Configure Database
            Sources</uicontrol> button to open the <xref
            href="../topics/preferences-data-sources.dita#preferences-data-sources"><uicontrol>Data
              Sources</uicontrol> preferences page</xref> where you can configure data sources and
          connections.</li>
        <li id="li_zdd_cgk_54b">In the <uicontrol>Format for generated schema</uicontrol> section, select one of the
          following formats:<ul id="ul_a2d_cgk_54b">
            <li id="li_b2d_cgk_54b"><uicontrol>Flat schema</uicontrol> - A flat structure that resembles a tree-like
              view of the database without references to elements.</li>
            <li id="li_c2d_cgk_54b"><uicontrol>Hierarchical schema</uicontrol> - Display the table dependencies
              visually, in a type of tree view where dependent tables are shown as indented child
              elements in the content model. Select this option if you want to configure the
              database columns of the tables to be converted.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li id="li_d2d_cgk_54b">
          <p id="p_e2d_cgk_54b">Click <uicontrol>Connect</uicontrol>.</p>
          <p id="p_f2d_cgk_54b"><b>Result:</b> The database structure is listed in the <uicontrol>Select database
              tables</uicontrol> section according to the format you chose.</p>
        </li>
        <li id="li_g2d_cgk_54b">Select the database tables that you want to be included in the XML Schema.</li>
        <li id="li_h2d_cgk_54b">If you selected <uicontrol>Hierarchical schema</uicontrol> for the format, you can
          configure the database columns.<ol id="ol_i2d_cgk_54b">
            <li id="li_j2d_cgk_54b">Select the database column you want to configure.</li>
            <li id="li_k2d_cgk_54b">In the <uicontrol>Criterion</uicontrol> section you can choose to convert the
              selected database column as an <uicontrol>Element</uicontrol>,
                <uicontrol>Attribute</uicontrol>, or to be <uicontrol>Skipped</uicontrol> in the
              resulting XML Schema.</li>
            <li id="li_l2d_cgk_54b">You can also change the name of the selected database column by changing it in the
                <uicontrol>Name</uicontrol> text field.</li>
          </ol></li>
        <li id="li_m2d_cgk_54b">Click <uicontrol>Generate XML Schema</uicontrol>.</li>
      </ol></p>
    <p id="p_n2d_cgk_54b"><b>Result:</b> The database structure is converted to an XML Schema and it is opened for
      viewing and editing.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
