<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="copyright">
    <title>Copyright</title>
    <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/>  User Manual</p>
    <p>Syncro Soft SRL.</p>
      <p>Copyright © 2002-<ph keyref="currentYear"/> Syncro Soft SRL. All Rights Reserved.</p>
        <p>All rights reserved. No parts of this work may be reproduced in any form or by any means-
      graphic, electronic, or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, taping, or information
      storage and retrieval systems - without the written permission of the publisher. Products that
      are referred to in this document may be either trademarks and/or registered trademarks of the
      respective owners. The publisher and the author make no claim to these trademarks.</p>
        <p>Trademarks. Many of the designations used by manufacturers and sellers to distinguish
      their products are claimed as trademarks. Where those designations appear in this book, and
      SyncRO Soft SRL was aware of a trademark claim, the designations have been printed in caps or
      initial caps. While every precaution has been taken in the preparation of this book, the
      publisher assumes no responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
      use of the information contained herein.</p>
        <p>Notice. While every precaution has been taken in the preparation of this document, the
      publisher and the author assume no responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages
      resulting from the use of information contained in this document or from the use of programs
      and source code that may accompany it. In no event shall the publisher and the author be
      liable for any loss of profit or any other commercial damage caused or alleged to have been
      caused directly or indirectly by this document.</p>
    <p>Link disclaimer. Syncro Soft SRL is not responsible for the contents or reliability of any
      linked Web sites referenced elsewhere within this documentation, and Syncro Soft SRL does not
      necessarily endorse the products, services, or information described or offered within them.
      We cannot guarantee that these links will work all the time and we have no control over the
      availability of the linked pages.</p>
    <p>Warranty. Syncro Soft SRL provides a limited warranty on this product. Refer to your sales
      agreement to establish the terms of the limited warranty. In addition, Oxygen XML End User
      License Agreement, as well as information regarding support for this product, while under
      warranty, is available through the <xref href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/eula.html"
        format="html" scope="external">Oxygen XML Web site</xref>.</p>
    <p>Third-party components. Certain software programs or portions thereof included in the Product
      may contain software distributed under third party agreements ("Third Party Components"),
      which may contain terms that expand or limit rights to use certain portions of the Product
      ("Third Party Terms").Information identifying Third Party Components and the Third Party Terms
      that apply to them is available on the <xref href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/thirdparty/"
        format="html" scope="external">Oxygen XML Web site</xref>.</p>
    <p>Downloading documents. For the most current versions of documentation, see the <xref
        href="http://oxygenxml.com/support.html" format="html" scope="external">Oxygen XML Support
        Web site</xref>.</p>
    <p>Contact Syncro Soft SRL. Syncro Soft SRL provides a telephone number and e-mail address for
      you to report problems or to ask questions about your product, see the <xref
        href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/support.html" format="html" scope="external">Oxygen XML Web
        site</xref>.</p>
    </body>
</topic>
