<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="copy-resources-working-copy">
  <title>Copy Resources</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>SVN Working Copy Resources<indexterm>copy resources</indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>You can copy several resources from different locations of the working copy. You select them
      in the <xref href="working-copy-view.dita"><uicontrol>Working Copy</uicontrol> view</xref> and
      then use <uicontrol>Copy to</uicontrol> from the contextual menu. This is not a simple file
      system copy, but an <ph conref="oxygenEntitiesDictionary.dita#OxygenEntities/apacheSubversion"
      /> command. It will copy the resource and the copy will also have the original resource's
      history. This is one of Subversion's very important features, as you can keep track of where
      the copied resources originated.</p>
    <p>Based on the selected items, the <uicontrol>Copy to</uicontrol> action is enabled only if it
      can be performed. Even if the operation would not normally be possible in SVN (due to some
      invalid local file states against copy), <ph keyref="product"/> performs the copy operation as
      a simple file system operation. This means no SVN versioning meta-data is affected.<note>
        <ul>
          <li>In case you copy an item to a directory that is <xref
              href="working-copy-view.dita#working-copy-view/wc_local_file_status">not under version
              control</xref> (<term>unversioned</term> or <term>ignored</term>), the history of the
            item is not preserved. For example, when copying directories, all items inside them will
            also be copied without history.</li>
          <li>In case you copy a directory that contains <xref
              href="working-copy-view.dita#working-copy-view/wc_external"
              ><term>external</term></xref> items, these are not copied. This is specific for SVN
            1.7 working copies only. To fetch the <term>external</term> items, use the
              <uicontrol>Update</uicontrol> operation on the copied directory.</li>
        </ul>
      </note></p>
    <p>In the <uicontrol>Copy to</uicontrol> dialog you can navigate through the working copy
      directories in order to choose a target directory, to copy inside it. If you try to copy a
      single resource you are also able to change that resource's name. For <term>versioned</term>
      items, you can select <uicontrol>Ignore resource history</uicontrol> to copy them without
      their history (similar to a simple file system copy).<note>The <uicontrol>Copy to</uicontrol>
        dialog only presents all the local directories that are a valid destination against the copy
        operation, based on their local file status. Also, the <xref
          href="working-copy-settings.dita#working-copy-settings">working copy settings</xref> are
        taken into account.</note></p>
    <p>In the <uicontrol>Commit</uicontrol> dialog will appear only the directory in question
      without its children.</p>
  </body>
</topic>