<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="copy_resources">
  <title>Copying Additional Resources to WebHelp Output Directory</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>WebHelp Responsive system<indexterm>Adding additional
          resources</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>WebHelp Classic system<indexterm>Adding additional
          resources</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>You can copy additional resources (such as JavaScript, CSS or other resources) to the output
      directory of a WebHelp system by using the <codeph>webhelp.custom.resources</codeph>
      parameter.</p>
    <section id="using_oxygen_xml_editorauthor">
      <title>Using Oxygen XML Editor/Author</title>
      <p>To copy additional resources to the output directory using a transformation scenario from
        within <b>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</b>, follow this procedure:<ol>
          <li>Place all your resources in the same directory.</li>
          <li>Edit the WebHelp transformation scenario, then open the
              <uicontrol>Parameters</uicontrol> tab.</li>
          <li>Edit the value for the <b>webhelp.custom.resources</b> parameter and set it to the
            absolute path of the directory in step 1.</li>
          <li>Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> to save the changes to the transformation
            scenario.</li>
          <li>Run the transformation scenario.<p><b>Result:</b> All files from the new directory
              will be copied to the root of the WebHelp output directory.</p></li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="from_a_command_line">
      <title>Using a Script Outside of Oxygen XML Editor/Author</title>
      <note conkeyref="reusables-transforming-documents/note-command-line"
        product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"></note>
      <p>To copy additional resources to the output directory using a <xref
          href="using-the-webhelp-plugin.dita#using-the-webhelp-plugin">script outside of <b>Oxygen
            XML Editor/Author</b></xref>, follow this procedure:<ol>
          <li>Place all your resources in the same directory.</li>
          <li>Specify the absolute path to that directory using the <b>webhelp.custom.resources</b>
            parameter.</li>
          <li>Execute the transformation script.<p><b>Result:</b> All files from the new directory
              will be copied to the root of the WebHelp output directory.</p></li>
        </ol></p>
      <p>For example:<ul>
          <li><b>Windows:</b><p><codeph>dita.bat -i c:\mySample.ditamap -f webhelp-responsive
                -Dwebhelp.custom.resources=c:\resources</codeph></p></li>
          <li><b>Mac OS X/ Linux:</b><p><codeph>dita -i C:/mySample.ditamap -f webhelp-responsive
                -Dwebhelp.custom.resources=C:/resources</codeph></p></li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
