<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE troubleshooting PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Troubleshooting//EN" "troubleshooting.dtd">
<troubleshooting id="crash-java-runtime">
  <title>Crash in Java Runtime Thread</title>
  <troublebody>
    <condition id="problem">
      <title>Problem</title>
      <p id="p_pfk_dgk_54b">I encounter consistent crashes in one of the Java runtime threads (for example,
          <i>AWT-EventQueue</i>, <i>Java2D Queue Flusher</i>, or <i>C2 CompilerThread</i>).</p>
    </condition>
    <troubleSolution>
      <cause id="cause">
        <title>Cause</title>
        <p id="p_qfk_dgk_54b">This is usually caused by unknown errors somewhere in the implementation of the Java
          Runtime.</p>
      </cause>
      <remedy id="solution">
        <title>Solution</title>
        <steps-informal>
          <p id="p_rfk_dgk_54b">Although this does not guarantee that it will solve the problem, you could try updating
            the Java Runtime Environment (JRE) that comes bundled with <ph keyref="product"/> to the
            latest supported version.<note type="important" id="note_sfk_dgk_54b">You should only use a version of Java
                <ph keyref="JavaProductVersion"/>.</note></p>
          <p id="p_tfk_dgk_54b"><u><b>Windows/Linux</b></u><ol id="ol_ufk_dgk_54b">
              <li id="li_vfk_dgk_54b">Download the latest Java <ph keyref="JavaProductVersion"/> JRE from here: <xref
                  href="http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jre8-downloads-2133155.html"
                  format="html" scope="external"/>. Download the JRE in the
                  <filepath>tar.gz</filepath> format with the same architecture as your <ph
                  keyref="product"/> installation (x86=32bit / x64=64bit).</li>
              <li id="li_wfk_dgk_54b">Navigate to the <ph keyref="product"/> installation folder and rename the
                  <filepath>jre</filepath> folder to <b>jre.old</b> (you will need admin privileges
                if it is installed in <filepath>Program Files</filepath>).</li>
              <li id="li_xfk_dgk_54b">Unpack the <filepath>tar.gz</filepath> and rename the extracted folder to
                  <b>jre</b>.</li>
              <li id="li_yfk_dgk_54b">Move that folder to the <ph keyref="product"/> installation folder.</li>
              <li id="li_zfk_dgk_54b">Verify the paths in the <filepath>jre</filepath> folder. The path of the JRE
                  <filepath>bin</filepath> folder should be:
                <filepath>oxygen/jre/bin</filepath>.</li>
              <li id="li_agk_dgk_54b">Start <ph keyref="product"/> and check the Java version in <menucascade>
                  <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol>
                  <uicontrol>About</uicontrol>
                  <uicontrol>System properties</uicontrol>
                </menucascade>. The <b>java.runtime.version</b> should be match the one you
                unpacked.</li>
            </ol></p>
          <p id="p_bgk_dgk_54b"><u><b>macOS</b></u><ol id="ol_cgk_dgk_54b">
              <li id="li_dgk_dgk_54b">Download the macOS <filepath>tar.gz</filepath> distribution of Java <ph
                  keyref="JavaProductVersion"/> from here: <xref
                  href="http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jre8-downloads-2133155.html"
                  format="html" scope="external"/>.</li>
              <li id="li_egk_dgk_54b">Extract the archive contents in a location of your choice (for example,
                  <filepath>Downloads</filepath>). You will end up with a folder named something
                like this: <filepath>jre1.8.0_181.jre</filepath> (depending on the version).</li>
              <li id="li_fgk_dgk_54b">
                <p id="p_ggk_dgk_54b">Move or rename the JRE that was bundled with <ph keyref="product"/>. The bundled
                  JRE folder (<b>jre.bundle</b>) is located inside a hidden folder named
                    <b>.install4j</b> (in the <ph keyref="product"/> installation folder), so you
                  cannot see it in the Mac Finder. Thus, you need to move or rename it via the
                  command line.</p>
                <p id="p_hgk_dgk_54b">For example, if you have <ph keyref="product"/> deployed in the
                    <filepath>Applications</filepath> folder, the command should look similar to
                  this:<codeblock outputclass="language-javascript" product="editor" id="codeblock_igk_dgk_54b">mv "/Applications/Oxygen XML Editor/.install4j/jre.bundle"
"/Applications/Oxygen XML Editor/.install4j/jre.bundle.old"</codeblock><codeblock outputclass="language-javascript" product="author" id="codeblock_jgk_dgk_54b">mv "/Applications/Oxygen XML Author/.install4j/jre.bundle"
"/Applications/Oxygen XML Author/.install4j/jre.bundle.old"</codeblock><codeblock outputclass="language-javascript" product="developer" id="codeblock_kgk_dgk_54b">mv "/Applications/Oxygen XML Developer/.install4j/jre.bundle"
"/Applications/Oxygen XML Developer/.install4j/jre.bundle.old"</codeblock></p>
              </li>
              <li id="li_lgk_dgk_54b">
                <p id="p_mgk_dgk_54b">Move the unpacked JRE folder from the location where you extracted it in the
                  second step to a folder named <filepath>.install4j/jre.bundle</filepath> inside
                  the <ph keyref="product"/> installation direction.</p>
                <p id="p_ngk_dgk_54b">For example, if you have <ph keyref="product"/> deployed in the
                    <filepath>Applications</filepath> folder, the command should look similar to
                  this:<codeblock outputclass="language-javascript" product="editor" id="codeblock_ogk_dgk_54b">mv "~/Downloads/jre1.8.0_181.jre""/Applications/Oxygen XML Editor/.install4j/jre.bundle"</codeblock><codeblock outputclass="language-javascript" product="author" id="codeblock_pgk_dgk_54b">mv "~/Downloads/jre1.8.0_181.jre""/Applications/Oxygen XML Author/.install4j/jre.bundle"</codeblock><codeblock outputclass="language-javascript" product="developer" id="codeblock_qgk_dgk_54b">mv "~/Downloads/jre1.8.0_181.jre""/Applications/Oxygen XML Developer/
.install4j/jre.bundle"</codeblock></p>
                <p id="p_rgk_dgk_54b">The default bundled JRE should now be successfully replaced by the newer one.</p>
              </li>
              <li id="li_sgk_dgk_54b">Start <ph keyref="product"/> and check the Java version in <menucascade>
                  <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol>
                  <uicontrol>About</uicontrol>
                  <uicontrol>System properties</uicontrol>
                </menucascade>. The <b>java.runtime.version</b> should be match the one you
                unpacked.</li>
            </ol></p>
        </steps-informal>
      </remedy>
    </troubleSolution>
  </troublebody>
</troubleshooting>
