<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="create-json-schema-from-learned-document-structure">
  <title>Learn Document Structure When JSON Schema is not Detected </title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Create JSON schema from learned document structure</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Learn document structure</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_fsz_bgk_54b">When there is no JSON schema associated with a JSON document, <ph
        keyref="product"/> can learn the document structure by parsing the document internally to
      provide an initialization source for content completion and validation.</p>
    <p id="p_etw_g15_jyb">This feature is controlled by the <xref
        keyref="options_content-completion"><uicontrol>Learn on open document</uicontrol>
        option</xref> that is available in the <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Content Completion</uicontrol>
      </menucascade> preferences page. This feature enabled by default. If you want to disable it,
      deselect the <uicontrol>Learn on open document</uicontrol> option.</p>
    <p id="p_u2z_1d5_jyb">You can choose to create a schema from the learned structure and save it
      as a file using the <uicontrol>Learn Structure</uicontrol> and <uicontrol>Save
        Structure</uicontrol> actions.</p>
    <section id="section_kfk_vzt_jyb">
      <title>Creating a JSON Schema from Learned Document Structure</title>
      <p id="p_gsz_bgk_54b">To create a JSON schema from the learned structure of a JSON document,
        follow these steps:<ol id="ol_g4y_wzt_jyb">
          <li id="li_h4y_wzt_jyb">Open the JSON document that will be used to create the schema. </li>
          <li id="li_i4y_wzt_jyb">Go to <menucascade product="author developer editor">
              <uicontrol>Document</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>JSON Document</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Learn Structure</uicontrol>
            </menucascade><menucascade product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">
              <uicontrol>JSON</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Learn Structure</uicontrol>
            </menucascade> (<uicontrol conkeyref="reusable-oxygen-shortcuts-list/ctrl_shift_l"
              >)</uicontrol>). <itemgroup>The <uicontrol>Learn Structure</uicontrol> action reads
              the mark-up structure of the current document. A <uicontrol>Learn
                completed</uicontrol> message is displayed in the application status bar when the
              action is finished.</itemgroup></li>
          <li id="li_j4y_wzt_jyb">Go to <menucascade product="author developer editor">
              <uicontrol>Document</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>JSON Document</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Save Structure</uicontrol>
            </menucascade><menucascade product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">
              <uicontrol>JSON</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Save Structure</uicontrol>
            </menucascade> and enter the file path for the JSON schema. </li>
          <li id="li_k4y_wzt_jyb"> Click the <uicontrol>Save</uicontrol> button. </li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
