<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="creating_custom_ai_actions">
  <title>Creating Custom AI Actions</title>
  <body>
    <p>In the <xref href="ai_positron-preferences.dita#ai_positron-preferences/section_hcz_l2q_nfc"
        >Oxygen AI Positron Assistant Actions preferences page</xref>, you can define a reference to
      a folder that contains custom actions.</p>
    <p>The <uicontrol>New Document</uicontrol> wizard in <b>Oxygen</b> can be used to create either
      a new <b>AI Positron Custom Action</b> file that contains a custom action definition in JSON
      format or an <b>AI Positron Custom Actions List</b> that contains a JSON array with multiple
      defined actions. Validation and content completion are automatically provided for these custom
      action files. To edit multi-line parameter values, you can switch the edited action JSON
      definition file to the <b>Author</b> visual editing mode.</p>
    <p>If you save the action definition files in the custom actions folder defined in the <xref
        href="ai_positron-preferences.dita#ai_positron-preferences/section_hcz_l2q_nfc">Oxygen AI
        Positron Assistant Actions preferences page</xref>, the <uicontrol>AI Positron
        Assistant</uicontrol> view automatically reloads its <uicontrol>Actions</uicontrol> list to
      include them.</p>
    <p>Various examples of custom AI actions can be found <xref
        href="https://github.com/oxygenxml-incubator/ai-positron-assistant-samples/tree/main/Custom%20Actions"
        format="html" scope="external">here</xref> and can be used as starting points for your own
      similar AI actions.</p>
    <p>An AI action definition may contain the following properties:<dl id="dl_vcf_mq1_kfc">
        <dlentry>
          <dt>id</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>A unique ID for the action. If the ID of the action starts with
                <codeph>agent.hidden.action.</codeph>, then the action is not visible to be invoked
              directly but can be called by using the <xref href="#./dlentry_svh_mtv_g2c"/>
              tool.</p>
            <p>Example:<codeblock id="codeblock_ghl_4q1_kfc" outputclass="language-json">{
        "id": "improve.grammar.custom.styles",
        "title": "...",
        ...
}</codeblock><note id="note_q12_br1_kfc">An <ph keyref="product"/> desktop plugin can
                contribute an extra <xref
                  href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-editor/dev_guide/contributing_translations_for_new_labels_and_ui_text.html"
                  format="html" scope="external"><filepath>translation.xml</filepath></xref> file
                that contains translations. Such a plugin may translate titles and descriptions for
                AI actions using the action ID as part of the key.<p id="p_odz_rgq_nfc"
                >Example:</p><codeblock id="codeblock_lfl_rr1_kfc" outputclass="language-xml">	&lt;key value="improve.grammar.custom.styles.title"> 
		&lt;val lang="en_US">Improve Styles&lt;/val> 
		&lt;val lang="de_DE">...&lt;/val> 
		... 
	&lt;/key>
	&lt;key value="improve.grammar.custom.styles.description">
		&lt;val lang="en_US">Analyze and improve styles.&lt;/val>
		&lt;val lang="de_DE">...&lt;/val>
		...
	&lt;/key></codeblock></note></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>title</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_lrg_33q_nfc">The action name/title that gets presented in the UI.</p>
            <p id="p_mlj_tgq_nfc"
              >Example:<codeblock id="codeblock_kps_bs1_kfc" outputclass="language-json">{
        "id": "improve.grammar.custom.styles",
        "title": "Improve Grammar and Styles",
        ...
}</codeblock></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>description</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_bgy_h3q_nfc">A longer description of what the AI action does, usually used as a
              tooltip.</p>
            <p id="p_gy1_vgq_nfc"
              >Example:<codeblock id="codeblock_il2_ns1_kfc" outputclass="language-json">{
        "id": "...",
        "title": "Improve Grammar and Styles",
        "description": "Improve the grammar and styles based on the company's style guide."
}</codeblock></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>short-description</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_l3n_h3q_nfc">A shorter description for the AI action that usually appears under
              the action title in the chat view. If not specified, it defaults to the description
              value.</p>
            <p id="p_tss_xgq_nfc"
              >Example:<codeblock id="codeblock_h25_ts1_kfc" outputclass="language-json">{
    "id": "action.translate.to.english",
    "title": "English",
    "short-description": "Translate to English",
    "description": "Translate the selected content to English while preserving its 
    original DITA XML markup.",
    ....
}</codeblock></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>categoryId</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_ojj_g3q_nfc">The optional category in which the AI action is visually grouped,
              if not specified it defaults to <codeph>Other</codeph>.</p>
            <p id="p_ow1_g3q_nfc"
              >Example:<codeblock id="codeblock_r3y_hs1_kfc" outputclass="language-json">{
        "id": "improve.grammar.custom.styles",
        "title": "Improve Grammar and Styles",
        "categoryId": "Rewrite"
}</codeblock></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>framework</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_rlc_f3q_nfc">A framework pattern (like '<codeph>DITA*</codeph>') or content
              type name (like '<codeph>text/css</codeph>') that, when matched, presents the action
              when the document belonging to the framework is opened.</p>
            <p id="p_slc_f3q_nfc">Example:
              <codeblock id="codeblock_jjg_py1_kfc" outputclass="language-json">{
    "id": "generate.img.alternate.text",
    "title": "Generate Image Alternate Text",
    "framework": "*DITA*",
    ...
}</codeblock></p>
            <p id="p_qsd_k3q_nfc">An example of an AI action that shows this for any edited XML
              document (as it matches the <codeph>text/xml</codeph> content type) can be found <xref
                href="https://github.com/oxygenxml-incubator/ai-positron-assistant-samples/blob/main/Custom%20Actions/formula-equation.json"
                format="html" scope="external">here</xref>.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>prompt_ref</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_f4r_f3q_nfc">A reference to a separate file (usually encoded in Markdown) which
              defines the entire action prompt.</p>
            <p id="p_hds_c3q_nfc"><xref
                href="https://github.com/oxygenxml-incubator/ai-positron-assistant-samples/blob/main/Custom%20Actions/update-title.json"
                format="html" scope="external"
                >Example</xref>:<codeblock id="codeblock_ukv_jcb_kfc" outputclass="language-json">{
    "id": "action.update.title.based.on.content",
    ....
    "prompt_ref": "prompts/action_update_title.md"
  }</codeblock><note type="important" id="note_i3p_mcb_kfc">
                <p>The prompt is the most important part of the AI action. A prompt must be as
                  precise and detailed as possible, including examples. Some companies may adopt
                  prompt methodologies like <uicontrol>COSTAR</uicontrol> to specify the prompt
                  value. The context prompt defined in the <xref
                    href="ai_positron-preferences.dita#ai_positron-preferences/section_b5p_y14_wxb"
                  /> page is used as a prefix for all AI action prompts.</p>
                <p><xref
                    href="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/oxygenxml-incubator/ai-positron-assistant-samples/refs/heads/main/Custom%20Actions/prompts/action_validate_and_fix.md"
                    format="html" scope="external">Here is an example of a large prompt
                  file</xref>.</p>
                <p>A custom AI action can expand the context prompt in a specific part of its prompt
                  by using the <codeph>${contextPrompt}</codeph> variable in its own prompt.</p>
                <p>To define a custom AI action that does not use the context prompt in any way, in
                  the AI action's JSON configuration file, you can expand the context prompt to an
                  empty value like
                  this:<codeblock id="codeblock_qzn_f4f_qfc" outputclass="language-json">{
    "id": "improve.grammar.custom",
    "title": "..",
     ....
    "expand-params": [
        {
         "name": "contextPrompt",
         "value": ""
        }
    ]
}
</codeblock></p>
              </note></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>prompt</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_l5q_l3q_nfc">Multi-line parameter value that defines inline the prompt that is
              sent to the AI along with the content to be processed.</p>
            <p id="p_eyz_whq_nfc"><xref
                href="https://github.com/oxygenxml-incubator/ai-positron-assistant-samples/blob/main/Custom%20Actions/review-logical-mistakes.json"
                format="html" scope="external"
              >Example</xref>:<codeblock id="codeblock_lp4_3bb_kfc" outputclass="language-json">{
    "id": "action.review.logical.mistakes",
    "title": "Logical Inconsistencies",
    "output-action": "none",
    "prompt": "# CONTEXT #\n\nYou will act as a reviewer interested in finding inconsistency 
    and logical mistakes.\n\n# OBJECTIVE #\n\nYou are tasked with reviewing the given content.
    \nFind logical and inconsistency mistakes in the content and return a report."
}</codeblock></p>
            <p>
              <note type="important" id="note_ijc_j4f_qfc">
                <p>The prompt is the most important part of the AI action. A prompt must be as
                  precise and detailed as possible, including examples. Some companies may adopt
                  prompt methodologies like <uicontrol>COSTAR</uicontrol> to specify the prompt
                  value. The context prompt defined in the <xref
                    href="ai_positron-preferences.dita#ai_positron-preferences/section_b5p_y14_wxb"
                  /> page is used as a prefix for all AI action prompts.</p>
                <p><xref
                    href="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/oxygenxml-incubator/ai-positron-assistant-samples/refs/heads/main/Custom%20Actions/prompts/action_validate_and_fix.md"
                    format="html" scope="external">Here is an example of a large prompt
                  file</xref>.</p>
                <p>A custom AI action can expand the context prompt in a specific part of its prompt
                  by using the <codeph>${contextPrompt}</codeph> variable in its own prompt.</p>
                <p>To define a custom AI action that does not use the context prompt in any way, in
                  the AI action's JSON configuration file, you can expand the context prompt to an
                  empty value like
                  this:<codeblock id="codeblock_qzn_f4f_qfc2" outputclass="language-json">{
    "id": "improve.grammar.custom",
    "title": "..",
     ....
    "expand-params": [
        {
         "name": "contextPrompt",
         "value": ""
        }
    ]
}
</codeblock></p>
              </note>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>expand-params</dt>
          <dd>A JSON array that can define values for parameters that should be expanded in the
            context content. </dd>
          <dd>You can define parameters that can be configured by the end user when hovering over
            the AI action in the UI.</dd>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_zzp_vhq_nfc"><xref
                href="https://github.com/oxygenxml-incubator/ai-positron-assistant-samples/blob/main/Custom%20Actions/Thesaurus.json"
                format="html" scope="external"
              >Example</xref>:<codeblock id="codeblock_o5w_pz1_kfc" outputclass="language-json">{
  "id": "thesaurus",
  "title": "Thesaurus/Synonyms",
  "output-action": "replace",
  "prompt": "Provide a max of ${number} synonyms for:",
  "expand-params": [
    ...
    {
      "name": "number",
      "label": "Number of synonyms",
      "value": "10",
      "choice-type": "single-choice",
      "alternate-values": [
        "10",
        "20",
        "30"
      ]
    }
  ]
}</codeblock></p>
            <p id="p_bll_n3q_nfc">The following properties are available for a defined parameter:<dl
                id="dl_utl_yz1_kfc">
                <dlentry id="dlentry_cll_n3q_nfc">
                  <dt>name</dt>
                  <dd>The parameter name. It can be referenced multiple times with the syntax
                      <codeph>${param_name}</codeph> in the <codeph>context</codeph> parameter or in
                    the external prompt file referenced using <codeph>prompt_ref</codeph>.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_dll_n3q_nfc">
                  <dt>label</dt>
                  <dd>The label that appears in the UI when the parameter's value is configured by
                    the end user.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_ell_n3q_nfc">
                  <dt>value</dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p id="p_zgm_p3q_nfc">The value of the parameter. It can contain various <xref
                        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-editor/topics/editor-variables.html"
                        format="html" scope="external">editor variables</xref> that get
                      automatically expanded.</p>
                    <p id="p_vvk_5hq_nfc"><xref
                        href="https://github.com/oxygenxml-incubator/ai-positron-assistant-samples/blob/main/Custom%20Actions/update-prolog.json"
                        format="html" scope="external"
                      >Example</xref>:<codeblock id="codeblock_drx_31b_kfc" outputclass="language-json">{
        "id": "action.update.prolog",
        ...
        "prompt": "Update the DITA XML topic prolog with the current date ${currentDate}...",
        "expand-params": [
            {
                "name": "currentDate",
                "value": "${date(yyyy-MM-dd)}"
            }
        ]
    }</codeblock></p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_fll_n3q_nfc">
                  <dt>alternate-values</dt>
                  <dd>An optional array of alternate values that are available to be configured by
                    the end user when hovering over the AI action.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_gll_n3q_nfc">
                  <dt>choice-type</dt>
                  <dd>An optional choice type that defines how the end user can configure the
                    alternate values (combo box, check boxes, radio buttons).</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_hll_n3q_nfc">
                  <dt>prefix</dt>
                  <dd>The optional prefix value to be used for each expansion of the parameter's
                    value.</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>parameters</dt>
          <dd>An array of parameters that can be used to specify an engine name, temperature, or the
            available tool definitions. Some of the most commonly set parameters:<p
              id="p_emg_thq_nfc">
              <dl id="dl_t55_fdb_kfc">
                <dlentry id="dlentry_jng_thq_nfc">
                  <dt>engine</dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p id="p_kng_thq_nfc">The optional name of the engine to use with the AI action,
                      no matter what the default AI engine model is configured to be.</p>
                    <p id="p_lng_thq_nfc"><xref
                        href="https://github.com/oxygenxml-incubator/ai-positron-assistant-samples/blob/main/Custom%20Actions/review-logical-mistakes.json"
                        format="html" scope="external"
                      >Example</xref>:<codeblock id="codeblock_egs_kdb_kfc" outputclass="language-json">{
    "id": "action.review.logical.mistakes",
    ....,
    "parameters": {
        "engine": {"name": "o1"}
    }
}</codeblock></p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_mng_thq_nfc">
                  <dt>temperature</dt>
                  <dd>Temperature is an optional parameter that governs the randomness and thus the
                    creativity of the responses. It is always a number between 0 (more
                    deterministic) and 1 (more random). The default value is 0 and it should, in
                    general, remain unspecified when your AI actions are intended for technical
                    documentation that is precise in nature.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_nng_thq_nfc">
                  <dt>function_refs</dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p id="p_h5k_q3q_nfc">An optional JSON array that describes which tools can be
                      used when executing this action. For the list of available tools, see <xref
                        href="#./section_lqv_qnt_vbc"/>.</p>
                  </dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p id="p_wsv_q3q_nfc"><xref
                        href="https://github.com/oxygenxml-incubator/ai-positron-assistant-samples/blob/main/Custom%20Actions/add-related-links.json"
                        format="html" scope="external">Example</xref> of an AI action that uses
                        <uicontrol>Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG)</uicontrol> tools to find
                      related content in the
                      project:<codeblock id="codeblock_s5d_n2b_kfc" outputclass="language-json">{
    "id": "find.add.related.links",
    ...
    "parameters": {
    "function_refs": [
        {"ref": "get_related_resources_overview_from_project"},
        {"ref": "get_content_for_document_url"}
    ]
}
}</codeblock></p>
                    <p id="p_ong_thq_nfc"><xref
                        href="https://github.com/oxygenxml-incubator/ai-positron-assistant-samples/blob/main/Custom%20Actions/get-content-from-website.json"
                        format="html" scope="external">Example</xref> of an AI action that uses the
                        <codeph>get_content_for_document_url</codeph> tool to retrieve content from
                      a web site:<codeblock id="codeblock_thd_gml_lfc" outputclass="language-json">{
    "id": "action.get.oxygen.version.web.site",
    "output-action": "insert",
    "title": "Insert Latest Oxygen Version",
    "prompt": "Obtain the latest version of Oxygen from the 
    'https://www.oxygenxml.com/xml_editor/whats_new.html' web site by calling the tool 
    'get_content_for_document_url' and return it.",
    "parameters": {
        "function_refs": [
            {"ref": "get_content_for_document_url"}
        ]
    }
  }</codeblock><note id="note_hlw_x2b_kfc" type="important">There are specific
                        actions that can be called to invoke other AI actions from an AI action,
                        thus creating an agenting mechanism where various parts of the work is done
                        by various actions. An example can be found <xref
                          href="https://github.com/oxygenxml-incubator/ai-positron-assistant-samples/blob/main/Custom%20Actions/ai-actions-composed.json"
                          format="html" scope="external">here</xref>.</note></p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>input</dt>
          <dd>Defines which part of the current document should be sent to be processed by the AI
              engine.<p id="p_sfg_hgv_nfc">
              <dl id="dl_kgg_hgv_nfc">
                <dlentry id="dlentry_lgg_hgv_nfc">
                  <dt>selection, document [default]</dt>
                  <dd>Prefers sending the selected content. If there is no selection, it selects and
                    sends the entire document.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_mgg_hgv_nfc">
                  <dt>selection</dt>
                  <dd>Prefers sending the selected content. If no content is selected, either no
                    content is sent or an error message is received (depending on the action's
                      <codeph>output-action</codeph>).</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_ngg_hgv_nfc">
                  <dt>document</dt>
                  <dd>Always sends the entire document for processing, regardless if there is
                    content selected inside it.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_ogg_hgv_nfc">
                  <dt>none</dt>
                  <dd>Does not send any content from the current document. See this <xref
                      href="https://github.com/oxygenxml-incubator/ai-positron-assistant-samples/blob/revised-action-format-properties/Custom%20Actions/formula-equation.json"
                      format="html" scope="external">example</xref>.</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>input-type</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_lfx_r3q_nfc">Describes how the XML content from the document that is sent to
              the platform should be processed, as regular XML including markup tags or as plain
              text without the tags and with all DITA XML content references and key references
              expanded. By default, its value is assumed to be <codeph>markup</codeph>, which means
              the content is sent exactly as it is.</p>
            <p id="p_ytn_lhq_nfc">Example of an AI action that requires the input to be sent without
              any markup tags and with the DITA XML conrefs and keyrefs
              expanded:<codeblock id="codeblock_qkc_lgb_kfc" outputclass="language-json">{
    "id": "action.answer.questions",
    "output-action": "none",
    "description": "Generate answers to questions you ask based on the selected text or on the 
    entire document content.",
    "input-type": "markup",
    ....
  }</codeblock></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>output-action</dt>
          <dd>Defines the type of change the AI action performs on the opened document. Some of the
            most commonly used type values are listed below:<p id="p_pmc_khq_nfc">
              <dl id="dl_rjl_ngb_kfc">
                <dlentry id="dlentry_jnc_khq_nfc">
                  <dt>replace</dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p id="p_apq_s3q_nfc">The most common type of action. Sends the selected content
                      to the AI platform and proposes to replace the selection with the received
                      response. If there is no selected content automatically, the entire document
                      is selected when the action is invoked.</p>
                    <p id="p_knc_khq_nfc"><xref
                        href="https://github.com/oxygenxml-incubator/ai-positron-assistant-samples/blob/main/Custom%20Actions/Replace_bold_with_uicontrol.json"
                        format="html" scope="external"
                      >Example</xref>:<codeblock id="codeblock_tfr_ygb_kfc" outputclass="language-json">{
  "id" : "replace.bold.with.uicontrol",
  "title" : "Replace bold with uicontrol",
  "output-action" : "replace",
  "prompt" : "Replace the bold element with the uicontrol element (&lt;uicontrol>)....",
}</codeblock></p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_lnc_khq_nfc">
                  <dt>insert</dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p id="p_wzb_t3q_nfc">Inserts the content received from the AI engine in the
                      current document at the cursor position or at an offset specified by the
                        <codeph>insert-modes</codeph>. If the inserted content is invalid at the
                      proposed offset, the application attempts to find a proper location for
                      it.</p>
                    <p id="p_gwc_hhq_nfc"><xref
                        href="https://github.com/oxygenxml-incubator/ai-positron-assistant-samples/blob/main/Custom%20Actions/update-title.json"
                        format="html" scope="external"
                      >Example</xref>:<codeblock id="codeblock_ecl_fhb_kfc" outputclass="language-json">{
    "id": "action.update.title.based.on.content",
    "title": "Update Title",
    "output-action": "insert",
    "prompt": "You are tasked with creating a title for the given text, summarizing it and 
    focusing on its main points:"
}</codeblock></p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_mnc_khq_nfc">
                  <dt>none</dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p id="p_vgl_t3q_nfc">Sends the selected content or the entire document to the
                      AI platform and shows the response to the end user.</p>
                    <p id="p_nnc_khq_nfc"><xref
                        href="https://github.com/oxygenxml-incubator/ai-positron-assistant-samples/blob/main/Custom%20Actions/review-logical-mistakes.json"
                        format="html" scope="external"
                      >Example</xref>:<codeblock id="codeblock_v4c_b3b_kfc" outputclass="language-json">{
    "id": "action.review.logical.mistakes",
    "title": "Logical Inconsistencies",
    "output-action": "none",
    "prompt": "Find logical and inconsistency mistakes in the content and return a report.",
}</codeblock></p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_onc_khq_nfc">
                  <dt>create-new-document</dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p id="p_hvy_t3q_nfc">Shows a dialog box that asks for a context and then
                      creates a new document based on the received server response. The
                        <codeph>"additional_info"/"properties"/"file_extension"</codeph> property
                      can be set to impose an extension for the newly created document.</p>
                    <p id="p_srx_dhq_nfc"><xref
                        href="https://github.com/oxygenxml-incubator/ai-positron-assistant-samples/blob/main/Custom%20Actions/create-schematron-rules.json"
                        format="html" scope="external"
                      >Example</xref>:<codeblock id="codeblock_v55_j3b_kfc" outputclass="language-json">{
    "id": "action.create.schematron.rules",
    "title": "Schematron Rules from Style Guide",
    "output-action": "create-new-document",
    "additional_info": {
        "properties": {"file_extension": "sch"}
    },
    "prompt_ref": "prompts/create-schematron-rules.md"
}</codeblock></p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>insert-modes</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_kvf_v3q_nfc">A JSON array that defines places for inserting the content in an
              XML document. The first mode for which the XPath condition becomes true is <i>run</i>.
              Such modes are used when the AI action <codeph>output-action</codeph> is
                <codeph>insert</codeph>. An insertion mode has an <codeph>xpath-condition</codeph>
              parameter which when activated allows the mode to be run. It also has a
                <codeph>target-location</codeph> parameter which specifies an anchor node relative
              to which the insertion is done. And it has an <codeph>action</codeph> parameter with
              possible values <codeph>insert-after/insert-before/replace</codeph> which specifies
              where the content should be inserted relative to the target element.</p>
            <p id="p_ekp_bhq_nfc"><xref
                href="https://github.com/oxygenxml-incubator/ai-positron-assistant-samples/blob/main/Custom%20Actions/update-title.json"
                format="html" scope="external"
              >Example</xref>:<codeblock id="codeblock_nsq_pfb_kfc" outputclass="language-json">{
    "id": "action.update.title.based.on.content",
    ...
    "output-action": "insert",
    ...
    "insert-modes": [
      {
        "xpath-condition": "(//title)[1]",
        "target-location": "(//title)[1]",
        "action": "replace"
      },
      {
        "target-location": "(//shortdesc)[1]",
        "action": "insert-before"
      }
    ]...
  }</codeblock></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>embed-assist</dt>
          <dd>Set this optional boolean parameter to <codeph>true</codeph> to add the AI action to
            the top right <uicontrol>AI Positron Assistant</uicontrol> drop-down menu that appears
            when editing content in the <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> visual editing mode.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>quick-assist</dt>
          <dd>Set this optional boolean parameter to <codeph>true</codeph> to add the AI action to
            the quick assist bulb drop-down menu that appears in the left vertical stripe.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
    <section id="section_lqv_qnt_vbc">
      <title>Tool Calls</title>
      <p id="p_bvn_sr4_pcc">Within the definition of custom actions, you can reference existing
        functions that are called by the AI engine to interact with the application. This gives
        actions more context information and generates more accurate responses from the AI.</p>
      <p>Here is an example of a tool reference that gets called by the AI engine to obtain the
        entire contents of the
        document:<codeblock id="codeblock_ibw_5nt_vbc" outputclass="language-json">{
    "id": "action.summarize",
    "title": "Summarize",
    "categoryId": "Overview",
    "output-type": "none",
    "description": "Generate a summary of the selected content or the entire document.",
    "prompt": "Your task is to summarize the provided user text.",
    "parameters": {
        "function_refs": [
            {
                "ref": "get_current_document_plain_text_content"
            }
        ]
    }
}</codeblock></p>
      <p>The current available tool reference values are:</p>
      <p>
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><codeph>add_to_toc(ditaMapURL, resourceURL, anchorNodeURL,
                positionOfInsertion)</codeph></dt>
            <dd>Modifies the DITA map currently opened in the <uicontrol>DITA Maps
                Manager</uicontrol> view and adds a topic reference to it.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><codeph>get_content_around_caret</codeph></dt>
            <dd>Retrieves size-limited content around the current cursor location within the
              document open in the editor.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_r2p_s3f_y2c12">
            <dt><codeph>get_content_for_document_url</codeph></dt>
            <dd>Retrieves content from the document specified by the provided URL. An optional
                <codeph>lineNumbering</codeph> parameter allows the AI to request the returned
              content to be returned with line numbers included.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><codeph>get_current_document_marked_up_content</codeph></dt>
            <dd>Retrieves all text with markup from the current document open in the editor. An
              optional <codeph>lineNumbering</codeph> parameter allows the AI to request the
              returned content to be returned with line numbers included.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><codeph>get_current_document_plain_text_content</codeph></dt>
            <dd>Retrieves all plain text (e.g. without markup) from the current document open in the
              editor.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><codeph>get_current_editor_file_location</codeph></dt>
            <dd>Retrieves the location (absolute path/URL) of the current file that is open in the
              editor.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><codeph>get_related_resources_overview_from_project</codeph></dt>
            <dd>Retrieves (in JSON format) a set of resources from the user's local project based on
              given keywords. For each resource that has an overview that best matches the keywords
              in the current context, you can call the <codeph>get_content_for_document_url</codeph>
              tool to obtain the entire content of the resource URL. </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><codeph>search_in_project</codeph></dt>
            <dd>Retrieves (in JSON format) a set of precise matches found in the project for a
              searched text. The search can be done with regular expressions enabled or by setting
              file name and XPath filters.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><codeph>get_related_content_from_webhelp</codeph></dt>
            <dd>Returns content from the associated <uicontrol>Oxygen Feedback</uicontrol> WebHelp
              system that has <xref
                href="ai_positron-preferences.dita#ai_positron-preferences/section_eyj_bfn_3fc"
                >external RAG sources enabled and configured</xref>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><codeph>get_related_content_from_specific_feedback_site</codeph></dt>
            <dd>Returns content from the specified <uicontrol>Oxygen Feedback</uicontrol> WebHelp
              token passed as a parameter. The <xref
                href="ai_positron-preferences.dita#ai_positron-preferences/section_eyj_bfn_3fc"
                  ><uicontrol>Enable External RAG Sources</uicontrol> checkbox must be selected in
                the <uicontrol>Tools and RAG</uicontrol> preferences</xref>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><codeph>get_sch_component_details</codeph></dt>
            <dd>Retrieves Schematron components (e.g. pattern, title, phase, diagnostics) used in
              the provided code, defined in both the current file and any imported or included
              stylesheets.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><codeph>get_xsd_component_details</codeph></dt>
            <dd>Retrieves XML schema components (e.g. simpleType, elements, notations, complexType,
              attributes, groups) used in the provided code, defined in both the current file and
              any imported or included stylesheets.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><codeph>get_topic_context_in_toc</codeph></dt>
            <dd>Returns a hierarchical structure of the DITA map that is currently open in the
                <uicontrol>DITA Maps Manager</uicontrol> view. This structure shows the selected
              topic and provides context, including its parent, siblings, descendants, and nearby
              nodes within the DITA map. This feature helps the AI understand where the topic is
              located in relation to other elements in the DITA map. If the selected topic cannot be
              identified, the hierarchy will start from the root of the DITA map.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><codeph>resolve_dita_key_or_content_reference</codeph></dt>
            <dd>Resolves a DITA XML key reference (e.g. <codeph>&lt;ph keyref="abc"/></codeph>),
              content key reference (e.g. <codeph>&lt;uicontrol conkeyref="abc"/></codeph>), or
              content reference (e.g. <codeph>&lt;uicontrol conref="abc"/></codeph>). </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><codeph>find_similar_reusable_content</codeph></dt>
            <dd>Returns a list of DITA XML reusable components that match the keywords.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_svh_mtv_g2c">
            <dt><codeph>invoke_ai_action(actionID, content)</codeph></dt>
            <dd>Invoke an action by passing the action ID and content to process.<note
                id="note_gcg_qhn_d2c" type="tip">To define actions that are hidden in the interface
                and intended only for use by other actions, prefix their IDs with
                  <codeph>agent.hidden.action</codeph>.</note></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_ydt_mtv_g2c">
            <dt><codeph>retrieve_all_ai_actions</codeph></dt>
            <dd>Get IDs and descriptions for each available AI action.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><codeph>save_document(URL,content)</codeph></dt>
            <dd>Saves the document at the specified path and writes content to it. If a resource
              already exists at the specified URL, the content of the document will be overridden
              with the new content. For actions that use this tool, the application gathers a list
              of resources to modify and displays them in a <uicontrol>Preview</uicontrol> dialog
              box after the action processes.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><codeph>validate_document_content(URL, content)</codeph></dt>
            <dd>Validates specified content and reports error messages in JSON format.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><codeph>validate_current_document()</codeph></dt>
            <dd>Validates the current document's content and reports error messages in JSON
              format.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
      <p>You can impose a description for the referenced tool that is called by the AI engine: </p>
      <codeblock id="pre_uxb_24t_vbc" outputclass="language-json">"function_refs": [
  {
      "ref": "get_current_document_plain_text_content",
      "description": "The tool is designed to retrieve the complete document as 
      plain text without markup."
  }
]</codeblock>
    </section>
    <section conkeyref="reusables-ai-plugin/distributing_ai_actions" id="section_eh1_klq_gfc"
      ><p/></section>
  </body>
</topic>
