<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="creating_a_fine_tuned_model">
    <title>Creating a Fine Tuned Model</title>
    <body>
        <p>With the <uicontrol>Fine-tune Jobs</uicontrol> panel you can create new models, by using
      a process called fine tuning.<ol id="ol_jtl_kyp_5sb">
        <li>Press <uicontrol>New Fine-tune Job</uicontrol>. A dialog is displayed.</li>
        <li>In the dialog, you can choose to create a model starting from a base one (see the
            <uicontrol>Base model</uicontrol> combo box), that is trained over the text of XML, TXT,
          Markdown, PDF files:<ul id="ul_um2_pyp_5sb">
            <li>from the current project</li>
            <li>from a specified folder</li>
          </ul>Or:<ul id="ul_rl3_mzp_5sb">
            <li>from a file containing lots of "prompt"/"completion" examples in a JSONL format.
              This file may be created by a tool, or manually, and the training results in better
              models.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Once you press <uicontrol>Start Fine tune job</uicontrol> the job starts, and it will be
          listed in the <uicontrol>Fine-tune Jobs</uicontrol> panel. </li>
        <li>To check the job progress, you can press the <uicontrol>Refresh</uicontrol> button - the
            <uicontrol>Status</uicontrol> column will be updated. Another way is to use the
          contextual menu, the <uicontrol>Job Events</uicontrol> item. Example of a list of
          events:<pre id="pre_v5t_zzp_5sb">Fri Feb 25 08:45:22 EET 2022	info	Created fine-tune: ft-jAeo6XJ3dyXF0mchWAD0wWFb
Fri Feb 25 08:45:30 EET 2022	info	Fine-tune costs $11.85
Fri Feb 25 08:45:30 EET 2022	info	Fine-tune enqueued. Queue number: 0
Fri Feb 25 08:45:34 EET 2022	info	Fine-tune started
Fri Feb 25 08:53:34 EET 2022	info	Completed epoch 1/4
Fri Feb 25 09:00:53 EET 2022	info	Completed epoch 2/4
Fri Feb 25 09:08:10 EET 2022	info	Completed epoch 3/4
Fri Feb 25 09:15:30 EET 2022	info	Completed epoch 4/4
Fri Feb 25 09:15:56 EET 2022	info	Uploaded model: curie:ft-syncro-soft-srl-2022-02-25-07-15-55
Fri Feb 25 09:16:00 EET 2022	info	Uploaded result file: file-Avrc2wpFB1LKFiR7PFKver4o
Fri Feb 25 09:16:00 EET 2022	info	Fine-tune succeeded</pre>To cancel a job, use the
          contextual menu <uicontrol>Cancel</uicontrol> action.</li>
        <li>Once a job has finished, you can press <uicontrol>Refresh</uicontrol> in the
            <uicontrol>Model</uicontrol> panel and you will find the name of the new model in the
          combo box.</li>
      </ol></p>
    </body>
</topic>
