<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="creating-branch-tag">
  <title>Branches and Tags</title><prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>SVN Client<indexterm>Branches/Tags</indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>One of the fundamental features of version control systems is the ability to create a new
      line of development from the main one. This new line of development will always share a common
      history with the main line if you look far enough back in time. This line is known as a
        <i>branch</i>. Branches are mostly used to try out features or fixes. When the feature or
      fix is finished, the branch can be merged back into the main branch (<i>trunk</i>).</p>
    <p>Another feature of version control systems is the ability to take a snapshot of a particular
      revision, so you can at any time recreate a certain build or environment. This is known as
        <i>tagging</i>. Tagging is especially useful when making release versions.</p>
    <p>In <ph keyref="apacheSubversion"/>, there is no difference between a <i>tag</i> and a
        <i>branch</i>. On the repository, both are ordinary directories that are created by copying.
      The trick is that they are cheap copies instead of physical copies. Cheap copies are similar
      to hard links in Unix, which means that they merely link to a specific tree and revision
      without making a physical copy. As a result, branches and tags occupy little space on the
      repository and are created very quickly.</p>
    <p>Provided that nobody ever commits to the directory in question, it remains a tag. If people
      start committing to it, it becomes a branch.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
