<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="css_custom_properties">
    <title>Custom CSS Properties (CSS Variables)</title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_b3c_dgk_54b"><term>Custom properties</term> (also referred to as <term>CSS variables</term>) are
      properties defined by CSS authors that contain specific values to be reused throughout a
      document.</p>
    <p id="p_c3c_dgk_54b">Complex websites have many CSS rules, often with a lot of repeated values. For example, the
      same color might be used in dozens of different places, requiring a global search-and-replace
      operation if that color needs to be changed. Custom properties allow a value to be stored in
      one place, then referenced in multiple other places. An additional benefit is semantic
      identifiers. For example, <codeph>--main-text-color</codeph> is easier to understand than
        <codeph>#00ff00</codeph>, especially if this same color is also used in other contexts.</p>
    <p id="p_d3c_dgk_54b"><term>Custom properties</term> follow the same rules as other CSS properties, so you are able
      to define and use them at multiple levels, following standard CSS cascading and specificity
      rules. </p>
    <section id="section_l4w_ljy_q4b">
      <title>Usage</title>
      <p id="p_e3c_dgk_54b">A custom property name begins with a double hyphen (<codeph>--</codeph>) and its value that
        can be any valid CSS value. You use the custom property value by specifying your custom
        property name inside the <term>var()</term> function, in place of a regular property
        value:</p>
    </section>
    <example id="example_knk_4jy_q4b">
      <title><u>Defining a Custom Property</u></title>
      <codeblock id="codeblock_wyc_qjy_q4b" outputclass="language-css">element {
  --main-bg-color: brown;
  background-color: var(--main-bg-color);
}
</codeblock>
    </example>
    <note id="note_og4_4ky_q4b">Custom property names are case sensitive: <i>--my-color</i> will be
      treated as a separate custom property from <i>--My-color</i>.</note>
    <section id="section_chv_cmy_q4b">
      <title>Inheritance of Custom Properties</title>
      <p id="p_f3c_dgk_54b">If you define a custom property on an element, you will be able to access it on all of its
        descendents.</p>
    </section>
    <example id="example_xf5_qny_q4b">
      <title><u>Inheritance</u></title>
      <codeblock id="codeblock_w1m_rny_q4b" outputclass="language-xml">&lt;one>
  &lt;two>
    &lt;three/>
    &lt;four/>
  &lt;/two>
&lt;/one></codeblock>
      <codeblock id="codeblock_udn_zny_q4b" outputclass="language-css">one {
  --color:green;
}

three {
  --color:red;
}

* {
  color: var(--color);
}</codeblock>
      <p id="p_g3c_dgk_54b"><b>Result:</b><ul id="ul_evf_1py_q4b">
          <li id="li_h3c_dgk_54b"><xmlelement>one</xmlelement> has the color green. </li>
          <li id="li_i3c_dgk_54b"><xmlelement>two</xmlelement> has the color green.</li>
          <li id="li_j3c_dgk_54b"><xmlelement>three</xmlelement> has the color red.</li>
          <li id="li_k3c_dgk_54b"><xmlelement>four</xmlelement> has the color green.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </example>
    <section id="section_ojh_gpy_q4b">
      <title>Custom Properties Fallback Values</title>
      <p id="p_l3c_dgk_54b">The <term>var()</term> function has two arguments. The first argument is the name of the
        custom property to be substituted. The second argument (optional) is a fallback value, which
        is used as the substitution value when the referenced custom property is invalid or
        undefined.</p>
    </section>
    <example id="example_mmy_xpy_q4b">
      <title><u>Specifying a Fallback Value</u></title>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_tkl_1qy_q4b">one {
  color: var(--color, blue);
}

one {
  color: var(--color, var(--fallback-color, red));
}
</codeblock>
    </example>
    <section id="section_cfl_kl2_r4b">
      <title>Dependencies</title>
      <p id="p_m3c_dgk_54b">A custom property can reference the value of another custom property through the<term>
          var()</term> function.</p>
    </section>
    <example id="example_jcj_wm2_r4b">
      <title><u>A Custom Property Safely Using a Variable</u></title>
      <codeblock id="codeblock_jqf_zm2_r4b" outputclass="language-css">:root {
  --border-color: red;
  --main-border: 1px solid var(--border-color, green);
}

p {
  border: var(--main-border);
}</codeblock>
    </example>
    <example id="example_qrb_p42_r4b">
      <title><u>Combining Custom Variables with <codeph>calc()</codeph></u></title>
      <codeblock id="codeblock_ynd_q42_r4b" outputclass="language-css">:root {
  --foo: 10px;
  --bar: calc(var(--foo) + 10px); 
}

p {
  font-size: var(--bar);
}</codeblock>
    </example>
    <note id="note_flp_m42_r4b" type="caution"> This can create cyclic dependencies where two or more custom
      properties each attempt to reference each other.</note>
    <example id="example_smn_3n2_r4b">
      <title><u>An Invalid Situation of Variables Depending on Each Other</u></title>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_rjg_wn2_r4b">:root {
  --color:    var(--bg-color);
  --bg-color: var(--color);
}</codeblock>
    </example>

  </body>
</topic>
