<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="custom-documentation-XML-Schema">
  <title>Generate Documentation in PDF, DocBook or a Custom Format</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>Editing XML Schemas<indexterm>generate documentation for XML
            Schema<indexterm>as PDF, DocBook or custom
      format</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>XML Schema documentation can be also generated in PDF, DocBook, or a custom format. You can
      choose the format from the <xref
        href="documentation-XML-Schema.dita#documentation-XML-Schema/figure-schema-doc-dialog-output-panel-oxygen"
        product="editor developer">Schema Documentation</xref>
      <xref
        href="documentation-XML-Schema.dita#documentation-XML-Schema/figure-schema-doc-dialog-output-panel-oxygenEclipse"
        product="editorEclipse developerEclipse">Schema Documentation</xref> Dialog. For the PDF and
      DocBook formats, the option to split the output in multiple files is disabled.</p>
    <p>When choosing PDF, the documentation is generated in DocBook format and after that a
      transformation using the FOP processor is applied to obtain the PDF file. To configure the FOP
      processor, see the <xref href="preferences-fo-processors.dita">FO Processors</xref>
      preferences page.</p>
    <p>If you generate the documentation in DocBook format you can apply a transformation scenario
      on the output file, for example one of the scenarios proposed by <ph
        keyref="product"/> (<i>DocBook PDF</i> or
        <i>DocBook HTML</i>) or configure your own scenario for it.</p>
    <p>For the custom format, you can specify your stylesheet to transform the intermediary XML
      generated in the documentation process. You have to write your stylesheet based on the schema
        <filepath>xsdDocSchema.xsd</filepath> from
        <filepath>{INSTALLATION_DIRECTORY}/frameworks/schema_documentation</filepath>. You can
      create a custom format starting from one of the stylesheets used in the predefined HTML, PDF,
      and DocBook formats. These stylesheets are available in
        <filepath>{INSTALLATION_DIRECTORY}/frameworks/schema_documentation/xsl</filepath>.</p>
    <p>When using a custom format you can also copy additional resources into the output folder or
      choose to keep the intermediate XML files created during the documentation process.</p>
  </body>
</topic>