<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="custom-system-properties">
  <title>Custom System Properties</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Java system properties</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Custom system properties</indexterm>
        <indexterm>System properties</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>A variety of Java system properties can be set in the application to influence its
        behavior.<ph product="author developer editor"> For information about how to do this, see
          <xref
          href="set-parameters-for-application-launchers.dita#set-parameters-for-application-launchers/setting-a-system-property"
        />.</ph></p>
    <p>
      <table frame="all" id="table_xdw_hvv_j3">
        <title>Custom System Properties</title>
        <tgroup cols="4">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="3.79*" colsep="1" rowsep="1"/>
          <colspec colname="c3" colnum="2" colwidth="1.14*" colsep="1" rowsep="1" align="center"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="3" colwidth="1*" align="center" colsep="1" rowsep="1"/>
          <colspec colname="c4" colnum="4" colwidth="2.39*" colsep="1" rowsep="1"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Property</entry>
              <entry>Allowed values</entry>
              <entry>Default value</entry>
              <entry>Purpose</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">
              <entry><i>com.oxygenxml.disable.http.protocol.handlers</i></entry>
              <entry><b>true</b> or <b>false</b></entry>
              <entry><b>false</b></entry>
              <entry>By default, <ph keyref="product"/> uses the open source Apache HTTP Client
                software for HTTP(S) connections. If set to <b>True</b>, the default Java Sun
                HTTP(S) will be used instead. You will also lose <uicontrol>WebDAV</uicontrol>
                support and possibly other related features.</entry>
            </row>
            <row product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">
              <entry><i>com.oxygenxml.present.license.reminders</i></entry>
              <entry><b>true</b> or <b>false</b></entry>
              <entry><b>true</b></entry>
              <entry>When set to <b>false</b>, <ph keyref="product"/> will not display the messages
                that remind you to renew your Support and Maintenance Pack that covers your current
                license.</entry>
            </row>
            <row product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">
              <entry><i>com.oxygenxml.enable.content.reference.caching</i></entry>
              <entry><b>true</b> or <b>false</b></entry>
              <entry><b>true</b></entry>
              <entry>Enables content reference caching.</entry>
            </row>
            <row product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">
              <entry><i>com.oxygenxml.eclipse.remove.grid.editing.mode</i></entry>
              <entry><b>true</b> or <b>false</b></entry>
              <entry><b>false</b></entry>
              <entry>When set to <b>false</b>, <ph keyref="product"/> does not show the Grid editing
                mode when opening an XML document.</entry>
            </row>
            <row product="author developer editor">
              <entry><i>com.oxygenxml.default.java.accessibility</i></entry>
              <entry><b>true</b> or <b>false</b></entry>
              <entry><b>false</b></entry>
              <entry>System property that can be set to "true" to force the default detection of
                java accessibility. If <i>com.sun.java.accessibility.AccessBridge</i> cannot be
                loaded, <ph keyref="product"/> forces the Java accessibility to be disabled.</entry>
            </row>
            <row product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">
              <entry><i>com.oxygenxml.floating.license.timeout</i></entry>
              <entry/>
              <entry/>
              <entry>
                <p>Stores the time interval (in minutes) before floating licenses are released in
                  case of application's inactivity.</p>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row product="author developer editor">
              <entry><i>com.oxygenxml.language</i></entry>
              <entry>Language code (for example, <b>en-us</b>)</entry>
              <entry>N/A</entry>
              <entry>Property that holds the language code set during installation.</entry>
            </row>
            <row product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">
              <entry><i>com.oxygenxml.default.options</i></entry>
              <entry>A URL-type relative or absolute path.</entry>
              <entry>N/A</entry>
              <entry>Provides the path to an XML file containing default application options. For
                more details, see <xref href="default-options.dita"/>.</entry>
            </row>
            <row product="author developer editor">
              <entry><i>com.oxygenxml.customOptionsDir</i></entry>
              <entry>A file system absolute path pointing to a folder.</entry>
              <entry>N/A</entry>
              <entry>Sets a folder to be used by the application to load and save preference files.
                The default location where the options are saved varies according to the operating
                system. See <xref href="import-export-preferences.dita"/>.</entry>
            </row>
            <row product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">
              <entry><i>com.oxygenxml.ApplicationDataFolder</i> (Windows only)</entry>
              <entry>A file system absolute path pointing to a folder.</entry>
              <entry><b>%APPDATA%</b></entry>
              <entry>When the application runs on Windows, you can set this property to change the
                location where the application considers that the <i>APPDATA</i> folder is
                located.</entry>
            </row>
            <row product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">
              <entry><i>com.oxygenxml.editor.frameworks.url</i></entry>
              <entry>A URL-type absolute path.</entry>
              <entry><b>OXYGEN_DIR \frameworks</b></entry>
              <entry>Changes the folder where the application considers that the main
                  <term>frameworks</term> are installed. It has the same effect as changing the
                custom <term>frameworks</term> directory value in the <xref
                  href="framework-location.dita"><uicontrol>Location</uicontrol> preferences
                  page</xref>.</entry>
            </row>
            <row product="author developer editor">
              <entry><i>com.oxygenxml.MultipleInstances</i></entry>
              <entry><b>true</b> or <b>false</b></entry>
              <entry><b>false</b></entry>
              <entry>If set to <b>true</b>, multiple instances of the application are allowed to be
                started.</entry>
            </row>
            <row product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">
              <entry><i>com.oxygenxml.xep.location</i></entry>
              <entry>A file system absolute path pointing to a folder.</entry>
              <entry>N/A</entry>
              <entry>Points to a folder where RenderX XEP is installed. Has the same effect as
                configuring XEP in the <xref href="preferences-fo-processors.dita"><uicontrol>FO
                    Processors</uicontrol> preferences page</xref>.</entry>
            </row>
            <row product="author developer editor">
              <entry><i>com.oxygenxml.additional.classpath</i></entry>
              <entry>A list of <xref keyref="glossentry_jar"><term>JAR</term></xref>-type resources
                separated by a classpath separator.</entry>
              <entry>N/A</entry>
              <entry>An additional list of libraries to be used in the application's internal class
                loader in addition to the libraries specified in the <b>lib</b> folder.</entry>
            </row>
            <row product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">
              <entry><i>com.oxygenxml.user.home</i> (Windows only)</entry>
              <entry>A file system absolute path pointing to a folder.</entry>
              <entry><b>USERPROFILE</b> Folder</entry>
              <entry>Overwrites the user home directory that was implicitly detected for the
                application.</entry>
            </row>
            <row product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">
              <entry><i>com.oxygenxml.use.late.delegation.for.author.extensions</i></entry>
              <entry><b>true</b> or <b>false</b></entry>
              <entry><b>true</b></entry>
              <entry>All Java extensions in a <term>framework</term> configuration are instantiated
                in a separate class loader. When <b>true</b>, the <term>JAR</term> libraries used in
                a certain document type will have priority to resolve classes before delegating to
                the parent class loader. When <b>false</b>, the parent class loader will take
                precedence.</entry>
            </row>
            <row product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">
              <entry><i>com.oxygenxml.stack.size.validation.threads</i></entry>
              <entry>The number of bytes used for validation threads.</entry>
              <entry>5*1024*1024</entry>
              <entry>Some parts of the application (validation, content completion) that use the
                Relax NG parser sometimes require a larger <b>Thread</b> stack size to parse complex
                schemas. The default value should be more than enough.</entry>
            </row>
            <row product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">
              <entry><i>com.oxygenxml.jing.skip.validation.xhtml.data.attrs</i></entry>
              <entry><b>true</b> or <b>false</b></entry>
              <entry><b>true</b></entry>
              <entry>By default, the Relax NG validation was configured to skip validation for XHTML
                attributes that start with "data-", which should be skipped from validation
                according to the XHTML 5 specification.</entry>
            </row>
            <row product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">
              <entry><i>com.oxygenxml.report.problems.url</i></entry>
              <entry>User defined URL</entry>
              <entry>N/A</entry>
              <entry>The URL where a problem reported through the <uicontrol>Report
                  Problem</uicontrol> dialog box is sent. The report is sent in XML format using the
                  <b>report</b> parameter with the POST HTTP method.</entry>
            </row>
            <row product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">
              <entry><i>com.oxygenxml.parallel.title.computing.threads</i></entry>
              <entry>Integers</entry>
              <entry>4</entry>
              <entry>The number of parallel threads that will be used to compute referenced topic
                titles. Increasing this value reduces the amount of time it takes to compute topic
                titles in the <uicontrol>DITA Maps Manager</uicontrol> view.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </p>
  </body>
  <related-links product="author developer editor">
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link
        href="set-parameters-for-application-launchers.dita#set-parameters-for-application-launchers/setting-a-system-property"
      />
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
