<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="customizing_js">
  <title>Customizing <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> Client Side</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Oxygen XML Web Author Component<indexterm>Customize client
          side</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>Client side customization is available through a JavaScript API. Unlike the server side
      customization, it can be used to modify the application's GUI.</p>
    <p>The <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> is an editing platform, but it is the job of the integrator
      to provide a way for the user to select which file is going to be edited. Afterwards, the user
      should be redirected to the <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> editing page, and the following
      parameters specified:<ul id="ul_x1l_2x1_br">
        <li><codeph>url</codeph> - An absolute URL of the edited file.</li>
        <li><codeph>ditamap</codeph> - (Optional parameter) An absolute URL taken into account only
          when editing a DITA file. Provides the <xref keyref="glossentry_ditamap"><term>DITA
              map</term></xref> context of the edited DITA file.</li>
        <li><codeph>author</codeph> - The author name.</li>
        <li><codeph>trackChanges</codeph> - Flag that controls whether or not the editor should
          track changes. Possible values:<ul id="ul_bn3_jcf_11b">
            <li><b>default</b> - The status of change tracking is determined by the server's global
              options.</li>
            <li><b>enabled</b> - Change tracking is enabled but the user can disable it using a
              toolbar action.</li>
            <li><b>forced</b> - Change tracking is enabled and the user cannot disable it, not can
              she accept or reject any changes.</li>
          </ul>If you use an option other than <b>default</b>, the server change tracking status (as
          configured in the <xref href="webapp-admin-page.dita#webapp-admin-page">Administration
            Page</xref>) should not be "Stored in the document". For more information about this
          parameter, see <xref href="wa-force-track-changes.dita#wa-force-track-changes"/></li>
        <li><codeph>autoSaveInterval</codeph> - The interval of time (in seconds) to wait until an
          auto-save is performed. If <b>&lt;= 0</b> or <b>false</b>, auto-save is disabled. </li>
      </ul></p>
    <p><b><u>Example:</u></b></p>
    <p>Suppose that the <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> is deployed at the following
      URL:<codeblock>http://www.example.com/oxygen-sdk-sample-webapp/</codeblock></p>
    <p>The user (John Doe) wants to edit a file (located at
        <filepath>http://www.test.com/topics/topic.xml</filepath>) in the context of a <term>DITA
        map</term> (located at <filepath>http://www.test.com/map.xml</filepath>). In this case, the
      editing URL should
        be:<codeblock>http://www.example.com/oxygen-sdk-sample-webapp/app/oxygen.html
?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.test.com%2Ftopics%2Ftopic.xml
&amp;ditamap=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.test.com%2Fmap.xml
&amp;author=John%20Doe</codeblock><note>The
        parameter values are percent encoded before being added to the editing URL.</note></p>
    <section id="loading_custom_javascript_code">
      <title>Customize <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> Using JavaScript Code</title>
      <p>To extend the client-side functionality provided by <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> you can
        use the <xref keyref="jscript_api">JavaScript API</xref>. To load your JavaScript
        customization code, use one of the following methods:<ul>
          <li>Create a file called <filepath>plugin.js</filepath> and copy it in the
              <filepath>app</filepath> folder of the <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> deployment. </li>
          <li><xref
              href="customizing_plugins.dita#customizing_plugins/webapp_bundle_js_files_in_plugin"
              >Bundle JavaScript code with a Java <term>plugin</term>.</xref></li>
          <li>Bundle the JavaScript code with a <xref keyref="glossentry_framework"
                ><term>framework</term></xref>. Save your code in the
              <filepath>framework.js</filepath> file (located in the <filepath>web</filepath> folder
            inside the particular <term>framework</term> folder).</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist><title>Related Information:</title><link href="customizing_frameworks.dita#customizing_frameworks"/><link keyref="jscript_api">
      <linktext><ph keyref="webappProduct"/> JavaScript API</linktext>
    </link></linklist>
    
  </related-links>
</topic>
