<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="customizing-options">
  <title>Configuring Options</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Customizing options</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>The <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> functionality that is common with the standalone
      distribution of <term>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</term> share the same options. This allows you
      to configure a consistent editing experience for all users.</p>
    <section id="author_mode_options">
      <title>Author Mode Options</title>
      <p><ph keyref="webappProduct"/> stores its options in an <filepath>options.xml</filepath>
        file. The file is located in the <filepath>options</filepath> folder of the <xref
          href="webapp_deployment.dita#webapp_deployment/other_notes"><term>Oxygen Data
            Directory</term></xref>.</p>
      <p>If you are using the <xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/oxygen_sdk.html" format="html"
          scope="external">Oxygen XML SDK project</xref>, the
          <filepath>bundle-options/oxygen-options/options.xml</filepath> file is bundled with your
        resulting application and used to provide default options. This file is copied in the <xref
          href="webapp_deployment.dita#webapp_deployment/other_notes"><term>Oxygen Data
            Directory</term></xref> when the application starts if an
          <filepath>options.xml</filepath> file is not already present there.</p>
      <p>There are multiple ways to configure these options:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Some of the options can be changed using the <xref
            href="webapp-admin-page.dita#webapp-admin-page">Administration Page</xref> in your web
          browser.</li>
        <li>Use an options file exported from an <term>Oxygen</term> standalone application. To
          export the file, use the <xref
            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-editor/topics/import-export-preferences.html"
            format="html" scope="external"><menucascade>
              <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Export Global Options</uicontrol>
            </menucascade> menu action</xref>.<note>Archived options are unpackaged to the
              <filepath>options</filepath> folder only if an <filepath>options.xml</filepath> file
            is not already present.</note></li>
        <li>Manually edit the options file. To learn more about the supported options and the file
          format, continue reading the section below.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="oxygen_standalone_options_supported_by_web_author">
      <title>Oxygen Standalone Options Supported by Web Author</title>
      <p><ph keyref="webappProduct"/> supports some of the options used by <term>Oxygen XML
          Editor/Author</term>. The supported options are applied for all Web Author users. The
        options file has the following
        format:<codeblock outputclass="xml">&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;serialized version="18.1" xml:space="preserve">
  &lt;map>   
    &lt;entry>
      &lt;String>author.show.comments&lt;/String>
      &lt;Boolean>true&lt;/Boolean>       
    &lt;/entry>
  &lt;/map>
&lt;/serialized></codeblock>An
        additional entry should be added in this file for each option.</p>
      <table id="table_rcr_qpy_2x" colsep="1" rowsep="1" frame="all">
        <title><b>Oxygen XML Author Options Supported in <ph keyref="webappProduct"/></b></title>
        <tgroup cols="3">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="3.25*"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="newCol3" colnum="3" colwidth="2.75*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Key</entry>
              <entry>Type</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>additional.frameworks.directories</entry>
              <entry><xref href="#customizing-options/example-entry" format="dita">See example entry
                  below</xref></entry>
              <entry>
                <p>An array of java.lang.String objects representing paths to the additional
                    <term>frameworks</term> folders (may also contain editor variables). </p>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>ADMIN_PAGE_IS_DISABLED</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry><codeph>true</codeph> to disable the Administration Page completely.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>author.convert.external.content.on.paste</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>
                <p>Option that controls whether or not the content pasted in Author mode should be
                  converted to match the destination styles.</p>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>author.convert.external.content.space.preserve</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>
                <p>Option that controls whether or not the content pasted in
                    <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode should be converted to match the destination
                  styles in <xref keyref="glossentry_space-preserved-element"><term>space-preserved
                      elements</term></xref>.</p>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>author.format.compatibility</entry>
              <entry>Integer</entry>
              <entry>Use this option to control how line breaks are handled when a document is
                    serialized.<p><b>0</b>- (default value) - None.</p><p><b>1</b> - Do not break,
                  do not indent.</p><p><b>2</b> - Break lines only after block elements, do not
                  indent.</p></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>author.image.width.autoscale.limit</entry>
              <entry>Integer</entry>
              <entry>If set to a value greater than 0, images wider than this number of pixels will
                be resized. By default 1024.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>author.show.comments</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>Show the comment nodes in the author page.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>author.show.processing.instructions</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>Show the pi nodes in the author page.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>auto.correct.double.quotes</entry>
              <entry><xref href="#customizing-options/example-single-quote" format="dita">See
                  example entry below</xref></entry>
              <entry>If set, Web Author automatically replaces double quotes with the specified
                quotation symbols. </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>auto.correct.single.quotes</entry>
              <entry><xref href="#customizing-options/example-single-quote" format="dita">See
                  example entry below</xref></entry>
              <entry>If set, Web Author automatically replaces single quotes with the specified
                quotation symbols. </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>autocorrect.feature.state</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>Used to enable/disable the auto-correct feature.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>autocorrect.use.suggeestions.from.spell.check.dicts</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>Used to enrich the auto-correct suggestions with entries from spell checking
                dictionaries.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>automatically.accept.certificates</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>Option that controls if Oxygen will accept all HTTPS certificates.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>default.xml.schema.version</entry>
              <entry>String</entry>
              <entry>The XML Schema version to use if it is not specified in the schema file (see
                  <xref href="#customizing-options/schema-ver-note" format="dita">schema version
                  note</xref>). The default version is <b>1.0</b>.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>dita.fill.link.format.attribute</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>Use <b>true</b> to force the insertion of the <codeph>format</codeph> attribute
                when inserting a link in DITA even when the attribute has a default value.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>dita.fill.link.scope.attribute</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>Use <b>true</b> to force the insertion of the <codeph>scope</codeph> attribute
                when inserting a link in DITA even when the attribute has a default value.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>dita.fill.link.type.attribute</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>Use <b>true</b> to force the insertion of the <codeph>type</codeph> attribute
                when inserting a link in DITA even when the attribute has a default value.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>dita.ot.directory</entry>
              <entry>String</entry>
              <entry>The directory path to the default DITA OT installation.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>editor.line.width</entry>
              <entry>Integer</entry>
              <entry>Used to define the number of characters after which a hard line-wrapping action
                is performed (default is 100).</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>http.max.simultaneous.connections.per.host</entry>
              <entry>Integer</entry>
              <entry>Limits the number of connections the HTTP client can open to the same server
                host.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>http.proxy.direct</entry>
              <entry>String</entry>
              <entry>Comma-separated list of hosts for which the proxy is bypassed.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>http.proxy.host</entry>
              <entry>String</entry>
              <entry>Proxy hostname or IP address.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>http.proxy.password</entry>
              <entry>String</entry>
              <entry>Proxy password.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>http.proxy.port</entry>
              <entry>Integer</entry>
              <entry>Proxy port.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>http.proxy.set</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>HTTP proxy uses manual configuration.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>http.proxy.system</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>"True" to detect HTTP proxy from system.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>http.proxy.user</entry>
              <entry>String</entry>
              <entry>Proxy user.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>http.read.timeout.seconds</entry>
              <entry>Integer</entry>
              <entry>An integer number that configures the timeout used when waiting for an HTTP
                request.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>insertOnlyElementsFromCCList</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>If set to <b>true</b>, the content completion list will only show elements that
                are valid at the current position.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Schematron_custom_language</entry>
              <entry>String</entry>
              <entry>The two-letter country code (for example:
                  <codeph>en</codeph>,<codeph>fr</codeph>).</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Schematron_language_option</entry>
              <entry>Integer</entry>
              <entry>
                <p><b>2</b> (default value) - The Schematron <codeph>xml:lang</codeph> value defined
                  on the root of the schema will be used.</p>
                <p><b>3</b> - The language attributes are ignored. All messages will be
                  presented.</p>
                <p><b>4</b> - A custom language defined by the option
                    <codeph>Schematron_custom_language</codeph>will be used.</p>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>show.caret.position.info</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>Use <b>false</b> to disable the tooltip popup that is normally displayed at the
                cursor position.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>showAllPossibleElementsInCCList</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>If set to <b>true</b>, the content completion list will show all the elements
                in the schema, even those that are not valid at the current position.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry id="spell-check-options-entry">spell.check.options</entry>
              <entry><xref href="#customizing-options/example-single-quote" format="dita">See
                  example entry below</xref></entry>
              <entry>Can be used to set some spell-checking options, including the default language
                used when no <codeph>xml:lang</codeph> attribute is set.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry id="topic-content-refs-limit">topic.content.refs.limit</entry>
              <entry>Integer</entry>
              <entry>The maximum number of references that can be contained within a DITA map to
                display it in the <uicontrol>View Topic Content</uicontrol> mode.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>track.changes.initial.state</entry>
              <entry>Integer</entry>
              <entry>Option for <term>track changes</term> initial state.<ul>
                  <li><b>0</b> - Initial state stored in document.</li>
                  <li><b>1</b> - <term>Track changes</term> always on.</li>
                  <li><b>2</b> - <term>Track changes</term> always off.</li>
                </ul></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>undo.history.limit.v10.3</entry>
              <entry>Integer</entry>
              <entry>The number of operations that can be undone. By default 200.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>validate.as.you.type</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>Use <b>false</b> to turn off the automatic validation.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>validate.max.errors.number</entry>
              <entry>Integer</entry>
              <entry>The maximum number of validation errors that can be shown. Default value is
                100.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>WEBAPP_SHOW_ADMIN_PAGE_LINK</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry><codeph>true</codeph> to display the admin page link on the dashboard.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      <note type="other" othertype="Schema Version Note" id="schema-ver-note">To specify an XML
        Schema version (for example, 1.1) directly in the schema file, you need to add an attribute
        to the namespace declaration like
        this:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">xmlns:vc="http://www.w3.org/2007/XMLSchema-versioning" vc:minVersion="1.1"</codeblock></note>
    </section>
    <section id="examples_of_using_options">
      <title>Examples of Using Options</title>
      <p id="example-entry">Example entry for <codeph>additional.frameworks.directories</codeph>
        option:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;entry>
  &lt;String>
   additional.frameworks.directories
  &lt;/String>
  &lt;String-array>
    &lt;String>
     /path/to/frameworks
    &lt;/String>
  &lt;/String-array>
&lt;/entry></codeblock></p>
      <p id="example-single-quote">Example entry for <codeph>auto.correct.single.quotes</codeph> and
          <codeph>auto.correct.double.quotes</codeph>
        option:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;entry> 
  &lt;String>auto.correct.single.quotes&lt;/String> &lt;!–- or auto.correct.double.quotes  -->
  &lt;autoCorrectQuotes>
    &lt;field name="enabled">
      &lt;Boolean>true&lt;/Boolean>
    &lt;/field>
    &lt;field name="startQuote">
      &lt;Character>‘&lt;/Character>
    &lt;/field>
    &lt;field name="endQuote">
      &lt;Character>’&lt;/Character>
    &lt;/field>
  &lt;/autoCorrectQuotes>
&lt;/entry></codeblock></p>
      <p id="example-spellcheck">Example entry for <codeph>spell.check.options</codeph> option:
        <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;entry>
  &lt;String>spell.check.options&lt;/String>
  &lt;spellCheckOptions>
    &lt;field name="language">
      &lt;String>de_DE&lt;/String>
    &lt;/field>
  &lt;/spellCheckOptions>
&lt;/entry></codeblock></p>
    </section>
    <section id="webapp_config_file">
      <title>Web Author-Specific Options</title>
      <p>A small number of options are specific only to <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> and they can be
        configured in the <filepath>WEB-INF/web.xml</filepath> file. Each option is specified as a
          <codeph>context-param</codeph> element.</p>
      <p>The following is a list of these options and their accepted values:<table frame="all"
          rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_qhw_t1t_1r">
          <tgroup cols="4">
            <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="3.37*"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*" align="center"/>
            <colspec colname="newCol3" colnum="3" colwidth="1*" align="center"/>
            <colspec colname="c3" colnum="4" colwidth="3*"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>Option name</entry>
                <entry>Value</entry>
                <entry>Default Value</entry>
                <entry>Description</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry><i>com.oxygenxml.loadBuiltinProtocolHandlers</i></entry>
                <entry>true/false</entry>
                <entry>True</entry>
                <entry>Controls whether or not the built-in handlers for HTTP/HTTPS and FTP/SFTP
                  protocols are installed. Default value is <i>true</i>.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><i>com.oxygenxml.validation.threads.no</i></entry>
                <entry>An integer number</entry>
                <entry>Half the number of cores on the server</entry>
                <entry>Configures the number of validation threads.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><i>com.oxygenxml.webapp.datastore.docs.disk.expire</i></entry>
                <entry>Duration (*)</entry>
                <entry>30d</entry>
                <entry>Indicates the delay after which inactive sessions are discarded.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><i>com.oxygenxml.webapp.datastore.docs.disk.size</i></entry>
                <entry>An integer number</entry>
                <entry>1,000,000</entry>
                <entry>Indicates the number of inactive editing sessions that can be stored on
                  disk.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><i>com.oxygenxml.webapp.datastore.docs.memory.expire</i></entry>
                <entry>Duration (*)</entry>
                <entry>2d</entry>
                <entry>Indicates the delay after which inactive sessions are stored on disk.</entry>
              </row>
              <row id="mem_size_param">
                <entry><i>com.oxygenxml.webapp.datastore.docs.memory.size</i></entry>
                <entry>An integer number</entry>
                <entry>10,000</entry>
                <entry>Indicates the number of editing sessions stored in memory.</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table></p>
      <p>(*) - Duration is represented by an integer, followed by "d", "h", "m", or "s",
        representing days, hours, minutes, or seconds, respectively.</p>
      <p><b><u>Example:</u></b></p>
      <p>Here is an example of how to configure a context
        parameter:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;context-param>
  &lt;param-name>com.oxygenxml.loadBuiltinProtocolHandlers&lt;/param-name>
  &lt;param-value>false&lt;/param-value>
&lt;/context-param> </codeblock></p>
    </section>
    <section id="custom_options_for_the_git_plugin">
      <title>Custom Options for the Git Plugin</title>
      <p>It is possible to configure a master account for the <xref
          href="webapp-integrate-github-plugin.dita#webapp-integrate-github-plugin">Git
          connector</xref> so that users do not have to login to edit documents. The following
        options can be set in the <xref href="customizing-options.dita#customizing-options"><ph
            keyref="webappProduct"/>
          <filepath>options.xml</filepath> file</xref>.<table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1">
          <tgroup cols="3">
            <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="3.37*"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*" align="center"/>
            <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="3*"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>Option name</entry>
                <entry>Value</entry>
                <entry>Description</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry><i>PLUGIN_CUSTOM_OPTIONS.git.enforced_user</i></entry>
                <entry>string</entry>
                <entry>The master account username</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><i>PLUGIN_CUSTOM_OPTIONS.git.enforced_pass</i></entry>
                <entry>string</entry>
                <entry>The master account password</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><i>PLUGIN_CUSTOM_OPTIONS.git.enforced_mail</i></entry>
                <entry>string</entry>
                <entry>The master account address</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table></p>
      <p><b>Example:</b> The <filepath>options.xml</filepath> file would look contain the following
        snippet:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;entry>
  &lt;String>PLUGIN_CUSTOM_OPTIONS.git.enforced_user&lt;/String>
  &lt;String>example_username&lt;/String>
&lt;/entry>
&lt;entry>
  &lt;String>PLUGIN_CUSTOM_OPTIONS.git.enforced_pass&lt;/String>
  &lt;String>example_password&lt;/String>
&lt;/entry>
&lt;entry>
  &lt;String>PLUGIN_CUSTOM_OPTIONS.git.enforced_mail&lt;/String>
  &lt;String>mail@example.com&lt;/String>
&lt;/entry></codeblock></p>
    </section>
    <section id="custom_sharepoint_options">
      <title>Custom Options for the SharePoint Plugin</title>
      <p>If your documents use absolute URLs to reference other resources (such as images or DITA
        conrefs), <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> considers them as external and does not use the
        current user account to retrieve them. As a result, they may not be displayed in the editor.
        To fix this problem, you need to set the following option in the <xref
          href="customizing-options.dita#customizing-options"><ph keyref="webappProduct"/>
          <filepath>options.xml</filepath> file</xref>. If you use SharePoint Online, this option is
        not necessary.<table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_lbh_s2r_yfb">
          <tgroup cols="3">
            <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="3.37*"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*" align="center"/>
            <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="3*"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>Option name</entry>
                <entry>Value</entry>
                <entry>Description</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>PLUGIN_CUSTOM_OPTIONS.sharepoint_domain_name</entry>
                <entry>string</entry>
                <entry>The domain name of the SharePoint installation. </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table></p>
      <p><b>Example:</b> The <filepath>options.xml</filepath> file would look like
        this:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;entry> 
  &lt;String>PLUGIN_CUSTOM_OPTIONS.sharepoint_domain_name&lt;/String>
  &lt;String>sharepoint.my-company.com&lt;/String>
&lt;/entry></codeblock></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
