<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="customization_overview">
  <title>Customization and Integration</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Customization and Integration Guide</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Customizing Web Author</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Integrating Web Author</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <section id="intended_audience">
      <title>Intended Audience</title>
      <p>This Customization Guide is meant to help integrators or system admins who are looking for
        information about integrating and customizing <ph keyref="webappProduct"/>.</p>
      <p>For those looking for information about how to use the <ph keyref="webappProduct"/>
        application, see the <xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-webauthor/" format="html"
          scope="external">Oxygen XML Web Author User Guide</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="introduction">
      <title>Introduction</title>
      <p>One of the main benefits of <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> is that it can be integrated into
        your existing content ecosystem and allows anyone in your organization to access your
        content from anywhere they have an internet connection. <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> is
        highly versatile and can be customized to work with any XML vocabulary and any file
        repository system. It uses the same extension points, <xref keyref="glossentry_framework"
            ><term>frameworks</term></xref>, options, and <xref keyref="glossentry_plugin"
            ><term>plugins</term></xref> as the standalone version of <term>Oxygen XML
          Editor/Author</term>.</p>
      <p>Depending on your requirements, you may need to integrate <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> with
        several components. The complexity of your integration can range from a simple configuration
        to developing custom extensions using the API.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_gqp_ppm_b1b">
      <title>Integration with File Storage Systems</title>
      <p>If you want your content contributors to be able to open and save files, you need to <xref
          href="webauthor-integrating-file-storage.dita#webauthor-integrating-file-storage"
          >integrate <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> with your file storage system</xref>. For example,
        it can be integrated into a CMS or a versioning control system.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_y4d_wpm_b1b">
      <title>Integration with a User Management System</title>
      <p>You can also <xref
          href="webauthor-user-management-integration.dita#webauthor-user-management-integration"
          >integrate <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> with a user management system</xref>. This allows
        you to manage permissions and authentication, display the name of the user in comments and
        tracked changes, or customize the interface according to a user profile.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_wmh_p4f_c1b">
      <title>Integration in a CMS or Another Web Application</title>
      <p>Web Author can be integrated as an <xref
          href="webauthor-integrate-with-another-app.dita#webauthor-integrate-with-another-app"
          >embedded XML editor within your Content Management System or in another web
          application</xref>. You can even <xref href="customizing_ui.dita#customizing_ui">customize
          the Web Author interface by using the JavaScript API</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="configure_web_author_to_launch_from_an_embedded_l">
      <title>Integrate Web Author in Your Workflow</title>
      <p><ph keyref="webappProduct"/> can be configured to <xref
          href="webauthor-integrate-embedded-launch.dita#webauthor-integrate-embedded-launch">launch
          from an embedded link</xref> (for example, a link that appears in a web page, email
        message, or published output). You can also control the workflow by <xref
          href="webauthor-embed-custom-action.dita#webauthor-embed-custom-action">embedding a custom
          action in the toolbar or contextual menu</xref> (for example, an action to check a file
        in/out or mark a reviewed file as being resolved). </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_tjt_5pm_b1b">
      <title>Customizing Web Author for Your Content</title>
      <p>There are various ways that you can <xref
          href="customizing_frameworks.dita#customizing_frameworks">customize Web Author to adhere
          to your requirements for structured content</xref>:</p>
      <ul id="ul_icv_vpm_b1b">
        <li>Web Author supports any XML schema in any schema language. It also offers <xref
            href="webauthor-predefined-frameworks.dita#webauthor-predefined-frameworks">built-in
            support for DITA, DocBook, TEI and XHTML</xref>.</li>
        <li><xref href="customizing_frameworks.dita#customizing_frameworks">Customized
              <term>frameworks</term></xref> can be reused interchangeably between
            <term>Oxygen</term> standalone distributions and <ph keyref="webappProduct"/>.</li>
        <li><ph keyref="webappProduct"/> makes editing complex XML structure simple with inline
          form-controls.</li>
        <li>You can impose business rules through Schematron validation and quick fixes. For more
          information, see the <xref
            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-editor/topics/schematron-quick-fixes.html"
            format="html" scope="external">Schematron Quick Fixes (SQF) section in the Oxygen XML
            Editor User Manual</xref>.</li>
        <li>Web Author includes an automatic spell checking feature and you can customize the words
          that are detected by <xref href="wa-custom-dictionaries.dita#wa-custom-dictionaries"
            >adding custom dictionaries</xref>. Web Author also supports 3rd-party solutions for
          checking grammar.</li>
        <li>While customizing a framework, you can <xref
            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-editor/topics/create-your-own-templates.html"
            format="html" scope="external">create your own custom document templates</xref> and once
          the framework is uploaded to Web Author, users will have access to the templates when
          creating a new document.</li>
        <li>Web Author can be <xref href="customizing_plugins.dita#customizing_plugins">customized
            with a variety of <term>plugin</term> types</xref> or using <xref
            href="customizing_js.dita#customizing_js">the Java or JavaScript API</xref>.</li>
        <li>You have the ability to <xref href="customizing-options.dita#customizing-options"
            >customize various options</xref> that are shared between <term>Web Author</term> and
          the <term>Oxygen</term> standalone distributions. This allows you to configure a
          consistent editing experience for all users.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
