<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="customizing-templates">
  <title>Customizing Document Templates</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Customize document templates</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Document templates<indexterm>Customizing</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> allows you to customize certain aspects of predefined or custom
      document templates. For example, you can customize the icons or specify a prefix/suffix that
      will be used for the proposed file name in the <xref
        href="new-dialog-sa.dita#new-dialog-sa" product="author developer editor"
          ><uicontrol>New</uicontrol> document wizard</xref><xref
        href="creating-from-templates.dita#creating-from-templates"
        product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"><uicontrol>New from
          templates</uicontrol> wizard</xref>.</p>
    <section id="create-properties-file">
      <title>Customizing the Icons for a Document Template</title>
      <p>If you want to customize the icons to be used for document templates, use a properties file
        to specify the icons using the following procedure:<ol>
          <li>Create a new properties file or edit an existing one.<ul>
              <li>If you create a new properties file, use the same name as the template file except
                with a <filepath>.properties</filepath> extension (for example,
                  <filepath>MyTemplate.properties</filepath>). This properties file will specify the
                paths to the icons that will be used in the new file wizard. You can find some
                examples in the <filepath>templates</filepath> directory of the <ph keyref="product"
                /> installation directory to help you get started. <p id="define-icons">When
                  defining the icons, the properties file should look like
                  this:<codeblock>type=general
smallIcon=../icons/Article_16.png
bigIcon=../icons/Article_48.png</codeblock></p><note
                  type="important">For DITA files, the <codeph>type</codeph> property needs to be
                  set to <userinput>dita</userinput>. Otherwise, the template will not appear in the
                  dialog box for creating new DITA topics<ph
                    product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse"> from the <xref
                      href="dita-maps-manager.dita#dita-maps-manager"><uicontrol>DITA Maps
                        Manager</uicontrol></xref></ph>. For all other types of files, set it to
                    <userinput>general</userinput>. The icons specified in this properties file will
                  only be used for the new file wizards and not in any other part of the
                  interface.</note><p>
                  <note>If you created a new template and chose to use a custom directory for the
                    new template (in <xref
                      href="create-your-own-templates.dita#create-your-own-templates/step2">step 2
                      of the new template procedure</xref>), make sure the path to the icons is
                    relative to that directory.</note>
                </p></li>
              <li>If you edit an existing template, simply define the icon paths as specified <xref
                  href="#customizing-templates/define-icons" format="dita">above</xref>.</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li>Save the properties file in the same directory as the document template.</li>
          <li>Open the new file wizard (<menucascade product="author developer editor">
              <uicontrol>File</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>New</uicontrol>
            </menucascade><menucascade product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">
              <uicontrol>File</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>New</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>New from Templates</uicontrol>
            </menucascade>) and you should see your custom icons next to the document template in
            the appropriate folder.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="add_a_prefix_or_suffix_to_file_names_for_a_custom">
      <title>Add a Prefix or Suffix to File Names for a Document Template</title>
      <p>You can use a properties file for each document template to add a prefix or suffix to the
        file name that is proposed in certain dialog boxes when you create a new file from that
        template. This applies to the following new document dialog boxes:<ul
          id="new-doc-dialog-boxes-ul">
          <li product="author developer editor">The new document dialog box that appears when you
            select <menucascade>
              <uicontrol>New</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>File</uicontrol>
            </menucascade> from the contextual menu in the <xref
              href="using-the-project-view.dita#using-the-project-view"
                ><uicontrol>Project</uicontrol> view</xref>. The prefix or suffix is added to the
            name of the file in the <uicontrol>File name</uicontrol> field.</li>
          <li product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">The new document dialog box
            that appears when you select <menucascade>
              <uicontrol>New</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>New from Templates</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>[Template Name]</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol>
            </menucascade> from the contextual menu in the <xref
              href="using-the-project-view.dita#using-the-project-view"
                ><uicontrol>Navigator</uicontrol> view</xref>. The prefix or suffix is added to the
            name of the file in the <uicontrol>File</uicontrol> field.</li>
          <li product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse">For DITA files, it also applies to
            the new document dialog box that appears when you select <menucascade>
              <uicontrol>Append Child</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>New</uicontrol>
            </menucascade> or <menucascade>
              <uicontrol>Insert After</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>New</uicontrol>
            </menucascade> from the <xref href="dita-maps-manager.dita#dita-maps-manager"
                ><uicontrol>DITA Maps Manager</uicontrol></xref>. The prefix or suffix is added to
            the name of the file in the <uicontrol>Save as</uicontrol> field.</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p>To add a prefix or suffix to the file names for a document template, follow these steps:<ol>
          <li>Create a new properties file or edit an existing one.<ul>
              <li>If you create a new properties file, use the same name as the template file except
                with a <filepath>.properties</filepath> extension (for example,
                  <filepath>MyTemplate.properties</filepath>). This properties file will specify the
                prefix/suffix that will be used to propose the file name in the new file wizards.<p
                  id="define-pre-suf">When defining the prefix/suffix, the properties file should
                  look something like
                  this:<codeblock>type=general
filenamePrefix=prod_
filenameSuffix=_test</codeblock></p><p>
                  <note type="important">For DITA files, the <codeph>type</codeph> property needs to
                    be set to <userinput>dita</userinput>. For all other types of files, set it to
                      <userinput>general</userinput>.</note>
                </p></li>
              <li>If you edit an existing template, simply define the prefix/suffix as specified
                  <xref href="#customizing-templates/define-pre-suf" format="dita"
                >above</xref>.</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li>Save the properties file in the same directory as the document template.</li>
          <li>Open the new document wizard (<xref
              href="#customizing-templates/new-doc-dialog-boxes-ul" format="dita">using the methods
              described above</xref>) and when you select the appropriate template, you should see
            your prefix or suffix in the file name that is proposed in that dialog box.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist><title>Related Information:</title><link href="create-your-own-templates.dita#create-your-own-templates"/></linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
