<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="customizing_frameworks">
  <title>Integrating Web Author with Your Content by Creating Custom Frameworks</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Customizing your content for Web Author</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Customizing frameworks for Web Author</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Customizing document types for Web Author</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_mds_dgk_54b">You can customize <term>Web Author</term> to make it simple for everyone to write structured
      content and still adhere to your project conventions. This topic provides details about
      reusing frameworks between the standalone versions of <term>Oxygen</term> and <term>Web
        Author</term>, how to create customized frameworks, how to test and upload your
      customization, and other framework customization tips.</p>
    <section id="section_jqs_3sf_11b">
      <title>Examples of Framework Customization Use-Cases</title>
      <p id="p_nds_dgk_54b">
        <dl id="dl_ods_dgk_54b">
          <dlentry id="dlentry_pds_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Document Schema</dt>
            <dd>Web Author supports any XML-based schema in any schema language. It also offers
                <xref href="webauthor-predefined-frameworks.dita#webauthor-predefined-frameworks"
                >built-in support for DITA, DocBook, TEI and XHTML</xref>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_qds_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Add Support for a New XML Vocabulary</dt>
            <dd>You can customize <term>Web Author</term> to work with any XML-based document type.
              For example, you can customize <term>Web Author</term> to work with a <xref
                href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-editor/topics/dita-specialization-support.html"
                format="html" scope="external">DITA specialization</xref>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_rds_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Authoring Experience</dt>
            <dd>You can configure how documents are rendered in <term>Web Author</term> or display
                <xref
                href="dg-form-controls-properties-matrix.dita#dg-form-controls-properties-matrix"
                >inline form-controls</xref> to allow users to edit attribute values.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_sds_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Business Rules</dt>
            <dd>
              <p id="p_tds_dgk_54b">You can configure the automatic validation to use Schematron to enforce various
                business rules and propose solutions for them. For more information, see the <xref
                  href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-editor/topics/schematron-quick-fixes.html"
                  format="html" scope="external">Schematron Quick Fixes (SQF) section in the Oxygen
                  XML Editor User Manual</xref>. There is an interesting Blog post written on this
                subject available at: <xref
                  href="https://blog.oxygenxml.com/topics/SchematronBCs.html" format="html"
                  scope="external"/>.</p>
              <p id="p_uds_dgk_54b">There is also a public project in the <b>Oxygen</b> GitHub account pages that
                offers guidance and instructions for integrating an <i>Intelligent Style Guide</i>
                for imposing business rules and assisting the content authors. You can download the
                project and try it for yourself at: <xref
                  href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/integrated-styleguide" format="html"
                  scope="external"/>.</p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_vds_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Document Templates</dt>
            <dd>You can <xref href="#customizing_frameworks/new-templates-li" format="dita">specify
                document templates</xref> that users can choose from when creating a new
              document.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_wds_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Embedded Formats</dt>
            <dd>Web Author supports embedded formats such as MathML, SVG, videos, and others using
                <xref href="customizing_plugins.dita#customizing_plugins">plugins</xref> or <xref
                href="dg-form-controls-properties-matrix.dita#dg-form-controls-properties-matrix"
                >flexible form-controls</xref>. Also, support for embedded formats can be
              implemented by third parties. For example, <xref
                href="http://www.wiris.com/en/plugins/docs/oxygen" format="html" scope="external"
                >WIRIS provides a plugin</xref> that can be used to edit MathML equations in a
              visual way.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="reusing_frameworks_between_and_web_author">
      <title>Reusing Frameworks Between Oxygen XML Editor/Author and Web Author</title>
      <p id="p_xds_dgk_54b">Custom <xref keyref="glossentry_framework"><term>frameworks</term></xref> that are designed
        for documentation purposes can be reused interchangeably between <term>Oxygen</term>
        standalone distributions and the <ph keyref="webappProduct"/>. However, <xref
          href="wa-migrate-frameworks.dita">some fine-tuning might be necessary</xref> to maximize
        the editing experience for your content authors. The advantages of using a common
          <term>framework</term> include:<ul id="ul_rlf_yvy_1r">
          <li id="li_yds_dgk_54b">Uniform experience across multiple <term>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</term>
            distributions.</li>
          <li id="li_zds_dgk_54b">Ability to reuse previously developed <term>frameworks</term>.</li>
          <li id="li_a2s_dgk_54b">Many of the customized items that are added to your <term>framework</term> in the
              <term>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</term> standalone distribution also carry over to <ph
              keyref="webappProduct"/>. For example, items that are added to the list of proposals
            for the <xref keyref="glossentry_content-completion-assistant"><term>Content Completion
                Assistant</term></xref> will appear in both distributions.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_zzf_pns_vz">
      <title>How to Create a Custom Framework (Document Type)</title>
      <p id="p_b2s_dgk_54b">You can create a custom <term>framework</term> by extending an existing one: <ol id="ol_c2s_dgk_54b">
          <li id="li_d2s_dgk_54b">In a location where you have full write access, create a folder structure similar to
            this: <filepath>custom_frameworks/dita-extension</filepath>. </li>
          <li id="li_e2s_dgk_54b">Open a standalone version of <term>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</term>.</li>
          <li id="li_f2s_dgk_54b">Open the <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol> dialog box <menucascade>
              <uicontrol>(Options</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Preferences)</uicontrol>
            </menucascade> and go to <menucascade>
              <uicontrol>Document Type Association</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Locations</uicontrol>
            </menucascade>. In this preferences page, add the path to your
              <filepath>custom_frameworks</filepath> folder in the <uicontrol>Additional frameworks
              directories</uicontrol> list.</li>
          <li id="li_g2s_dgk_54b">Go to the <uicontrol>Document Type Association</uicontrol> preferences page and select
            an existing <term>framework</term> configuration and use the
              <uicontrol>Extend</uicontrol> button to create an extension for it.</li>
          <li id="li_h2s_dgk_54b">Give the extension an appropriate name (for example, <b><i>DITA - Custom</i></b>),
            select <uicontrol>External</uicontrol> for the <uicontrol>Storage</uicontrol> option,
            and specify an appropriate path (for example,
              <filepath>path/to/.../custom_frameworks/dita-extension/dita-custom.framework</filepath>).</li>
          <li id="make-changes-li">Make your changes to the extension. There is a large variety of
            ways to customize your extended <term>framework</term>. These are just some of the ways:<ul id="ul_i2s_dgk_54b">
              <li id="li_j2s_dgk_54b">The <xref
                  href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-editor/topics/the-document-type-dialog.html"
                  format="html" scope="external"><uicontrol>Document Type</uicontrol> configuration
                  dialog box</xref> contains various tabs and subtabs that allow you to configure
                the extended <term>framework</term>.</li>
              <li id="new-templates-li">You can <xref href="wa-file-templates.dita">create your own
                  custom document templates</xref> and once the framework is uploaded to <term>Web
                  Author</term>, users will have access to the templates when creating a new
                document.</li>
              <li id="li_k2s_dgk_54b">See the <xref
                  href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-editor/topics/authoring_customization.html"
                  format="html" scope="external">Oxygen Advanced Framework Customization
                  section</xref> for numerous procedures and examples of how to configure various
                aspects of the extended <term>framework</term>.</li>
              <li id="li_l2s_dgk_54b">For information about using CSS files to configure the extended
                  <term>framework</term>, see <xref
                  href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-editor/topics/selecting-combining-multiple-css-styles.html"
                  format="html" scope="external">Configuring and Managing Multiple CSS Styles for a
                  Framework</xref>.</li>
              <li id="li_m2s_dgk_54b">For information about configuring the Content Completion proposals for the
                extended <term>framework</term>, see <xref
                  href="wa-cc-configuration.dita#wa-cc-configuration"/>.</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li id="li_n2s_dgk_54b">Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> to close the dialog box and then
              <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> or <uicontrol>Apply</uicontrol> to save the changes.</li>
          <li id="li_o2s_dgk_54b">Create an archive that contains your custom framework folder that you created in the
            first step of this procedure. The archive should contain exactly one folder on the first
            level. You will need this archive structure to <xref
              href="#customizing_frameworks/deploying_a_framework" format="dita">upload the
                <term>framework</term> to Web Author</xref>.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="developing_and_testing_a_framework_using_the_weba">
      <title>Testing a Custom Framework Using the Oxygen XML Web Author Test Server Add-on</title>
      <p id="p_p2s_dgk_54b">An add-on is available to help you test custom frameworks for Web
        Author. The <xref href="wa-test-server-addon.dita"><uicontrol>Oxygen XML Web Author Test
            Server</uicontrol> add-on</xref> allows you to quickly preview and edit your opened XML
        documents in a local Web Author Test Server that uses the same framework that is associated
        with the document. The server is installed and configured automatically so you do not need
        to package, deploy, or do any extra setup. This simplifies and speeds-up the process of
        creating, updating, and testing customizations (frameworks).</p>
      <p id="p_svs_cyj_qfc">For details and instructions for using the test server add-on, see <xref
          href="wa-test-server-addon.dita"><uicontrol>Oxygen XML Web Author Test Server
            Add-on</uicontrol></xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="deploying_a_framework">
      <title>Uploading a Custom Framework to Web Author</title>
      <p id="p_ofs_dgk_54b">To upload a custom <term>framework</term> to your <term>Web Author</term> deployment,
        follow this procedure:<ol conkeyref="reusables-sdk-webauthor/upload-framework-ol" id="ol_pfs_dgk_54b">
          <li id="li_qfs_dgk_54b"/>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="adding_javascript_code_to_a_framework">
      <title>Adding JavaScript Code to a Framework</title>
      <p id="p_rfs_dgk_54b">Frameworks can be configured to load custom JavaScript code in the web
        browser. The JavaScript files are loaded according to the following rules:<ul>
          <li>If your framework is defined as a <filepath>.framework</filepath> file (for example,
            the framework was created using the <uicontrol>Document Type Configuration</uicontrol>
            dialog box):<ul id="ul_wd5_rnt_ktb">
              <li>All the files in the <filepath>web/</filepath> folder of the framework will be
                loaded in the browser in lexicographical order. </li>
              <li>JavaScript files located in subfolders of the <filepath>web</filepath> folder will
                not be loaded.</li>
              <li>If your framework is a framework extension, both the JavaScript files from the
                base framework and those from the extension will be loaded. To make it possible to
                override JavaScript files inherited from a base framework, if a file in the
                  <i>web</i> folder of the extension framework has the same name as a file in the
                  <i>web</i> folder of the base framework, only the file in the extension framework
                will be loaded.</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li>If a framework is generated using a <xref
              href="wa-framework-customization-script.dita"><i>Framework Extension
            Script</i></xref>, multiple <codeph>webResources</codeph> can be specified:<ul
              id="ul_b3b_lnt_ktb">
              <li>The <codeph>webResources</codeph> will be loaded in the order they are specified
                in the <filepath>.exf</filepath> file.</li>
              <li>If a folder is specified, all the JavaScript files in that folder will be loaded
                in lexicographical order.</li>
              <li>If a file is specified (directly or indirectly) multiple times, it will be loaded
                only once (the last instance that was specified).</li>
            </ul></li>
        </ul></p>
      <p id="p_wfs_dgk_54b">The framework's script needs to create an instance of
          <codeph>sync.ext.Extension</codeph> and register it in the
          <codeph>sync.ext.Registry.extension</codeph> field. For
        example:<codeblock outputclass="language-javascript" id="codeblock_xfs_dgk_54b">class MyExtension extends sync.ext.Extension {
  /** @param {sync.api.Editor} editor */
  editorCreated(editor) {
    // ... 
  }
}
// Register the extension so that it will be notified when the editor is created.
sync.ext.Registry.extension = new MyExtension();</codeblock></p>
      <p id="p_zfs_dgk_54b">These files can contain code that calls the <xref keyref="jscript_api">Web Author
          JavaScript API</xref> to implement custom editing actions. Some possible use cases
          include:<ul id="ul_x5q_s4y_hnb">
          <li id="li_ags_dgk_54b">Create custom actions and add them to the toolbar or contextual menu. For more
            details, see the <xref keyref="jscript_api_customaction">JS Tutorial: Implementing a
              Custom Action</xref>.</li>
          <li id="li_bgs_dgk_54b">Create custom form controls. For more details, see the <xref
              keyref="jscript_api_formcontrol">JS Tutorial: Implementing a Custom Form
              Control</xref>.</li>
          <li id="li_cgs_dgk_54b">Add more views. For more details, see the <xref keyref="jscript_api_customview">JS
              Tutorial: Customizing the Side Views</xref>.</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p id="p_dgs_dgk_54b">
        <note type="tip" id="note_fgs_dgk_54b">Some tutorials are available for other use cases in
          the <xref keyref="jscript_api">Oxygen XML Web Author Component API Documentation</xref>
          (in the <uicontrol>Tutorials</uicontrol> section).</note>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_bw2_bh2_crb">
      <title>Adding JavaScript Code to a Framework Extension</title>
      <p>When adding JavaScript code to a framework extension, you may want to also inherit the
        customizations made by the base framework using JavaScript code. </p>
      <p>For example, to create a DITA extension that removes the action to underline the selected
        text, follow these steps:</p>
      <p>
        <ol id="ol_twc_c32_crb">
          <li>Create an EXF file (for example <filepath>my-framework.exf</filepath>) with the
            following
            content:<codeblock id="codeblock_dpf_232_crb" outputclass="language-xml">&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;script 
    base="DITA" 
    xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
    xmlns="http://www.oxygenxml.com/ns/framework/extend"
    xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.oxygenxml.com/ns/framework/extend 
        http://www.oxygenxml.com/ns/framework/extend/frameworkExtensionScript.xsd">

  &lt;name>My DITA extension&lt;/name>
  &lt;description>My DITA extension&lt;/description>
  &lt;priority>Normal&lt;/priority>

  &lt;webResources inherit="all">
    &lt;addEntry path="${frameworkDir}/my-framework.js"/>
  &lt;/webResources>
&lt;/script></codeblock></li>
          <li>Create the <filepath>my-framework.js</filepath> file in the same folder with the
            following
            content:<codeblock id="codeblock_plz_g32_crb" outputclass="language-javascript">// Use the `sync.ext.WrapperExtension` class to wrap the original extension.
class MyFrameworkExtension extends sync.ext.WrapperExtension {
  constructor(base) {
    super(base);
  }
  
  filterActions(actionsMap, editingSupport) {
    super.filterActions(actionsMap, editingSupport);
    // Remove the "underline" action.
    actionsMap.delete('underline');
  }
}

var originalExtension = sync.ext.Registry.extension;
sync.ext.Registry.extension = new MyFrameworkExtension(originalExtension);</codeblock></li>
          <li>Create a zip archive with the folder that contains the two files created above to
            obtain the framework.</li>
        </ol>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_zfq_dfx_xkb">
      <title>Loading Static Resources from the Framework Directory</title>
      <p id="p_ggs_dgk_54b">All the resources (such as images, HTML, or CSS files) found in the
          <filepath>web</filepath> sub-folder of the framework folder can be accessed from the web
        browser using a URL obtained by evaluating <codeph>sync.ext.Registry.extensionURL</codeph>
        in JavaScript. For example, a file located at
          <filepath>&lt;framework-folder>/web/resources/image.png</filepath> can be accessed by the
        following
        URL:<codeblock outputclass="language-javascript" id="codeblock_hgs_dgk_54b">sync.ext.Registry.extensionURL + 'resources/image.png'</codeblock></p>
      <p id="p_gmz_npw_kxb">When using a framework generated from a <xref
          href="wa-framework-customization-script.dita"><i>Framework Extension Script</i></xref>,
        the path appended to <codeph>sync.ext.Registry.extensionURL</codeph>
          (<filepath>resources/image.png</filepath> in the example above) is resolved against all
        the directories configured as <codeph>webResource</codeph> in the <filepath>.exf</filepath>
        file. If the file is present in multiple such folders, the last one is used.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="customization_tips">
      <title>Other Customization Tips</title>
      <p id="p_igs_dgk_54b">
        <ul id="ol_css_3h1_br">
          <li id="li_jgs_dgk_54b">If you want to use CSS rules that only apply when the <term>framework</term> is used
            in the <ph keyref="webappProduct"/>, use the following <codeph>media</codeph>
            query:<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_kgs_dgk_54b">@media oxygen AND (platform:webapp) {
 ... 
}</codeblock></li>
          <li id="author-mode-operation-li">
            <p id="p_lgs_dgk_54b">If the <term>framework</term> contains custom <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode
              operations (Java implementations of the
                <codeph>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.AuthorOperation</codeph> interface), they can be
              enabled to be used by the <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> using the
                <codeph>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.WebappCompatible</codeph> annotation.</p>
            <p id="p_mgs_dgk_54b">If you plan to invoke a custom <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode operation from the
              JavaScript code (as in <xref keyref="jscript_api_customaction">this tutorial</xref>),
              the operation has to be annotated with
                <codeph>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.webapp.WebappRestSafe</codeph>. <note
                type="warning" id="note_ngs_dgk_54b">Operations annotated with
                  <codeph>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.webapp.WebappRestSafe</codeph> can be invoked
                with user-supplied parameters. Use this annotation only for operations that are safe
                to execute with any parameter combination. For example, an action that would execute
                a process on the server based on a command-line script specified by the user is
                  <b>not</b> safe.</note></p>
            <p id="p_ogs_dgk_54b">
              <note id="note_pgs_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode operations that use <term>Java Swing</term>
                components to display a graphical interface are not compatible with the <ph
                  keyref="webappProduct"/> and they should not be annotated.</note>
            </p>
          </li>
          <li id="li_qgs_dgk_54b">The <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> continuously validates the XML documents using the
            default validation scenarios defined at <term>framework</term> level. Only the
            validation units that have the <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-editor/topics/edit-validation-scenario.html#edit-validation-scenario__validation-config-dialog"
              format="html" scope="external"><uicontrol>Automatic Validation</uicontrol> option
              selected in the <uicontrol>Edit Scenario</uicontrol> dialog box</xref> that is
            accessed by editing a scenario in the <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-editor/topics/document-type-validation-tab.html"
              format="html" scope="external"><uicontrol>Validation</uicontrol> subtab when editing a
              document type</xref>.</li>
        </ul>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_x2n_vhh_vrb">
      <title>Resources</title>
      <p id="p_orm_dgk_54b">For more information about customizing Web Author and frameworks, see
        the following resources:<ul id="ul_kdg_v5v_tvb">
          <li id="li_fj4_nd5_mbc">Webinar: <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/events/2024/webinar_web_author_customizations_getting_started.html"
              format="html" scope="external"><b>Web Author Customizations - Getting
              Started</b></xref></li>
          <li id="li_oxd_f25_mbc">Webinar: <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/events/2018/webinar_creating_oxygen_frameworks.html"
              format="html" scope="external"><b>Creating Oxygen Frameworks (Oxygen XML
              Editor)</b></xref></li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
