<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="customizing-xml-schema-documentation">
  <title>Customizing the Generated PDF</title>
  <body>
    <p>You are able to customize the PDF output of the documentation for an XML schema by running
      two transformations and customizing the intermediate file. To do this, use the following procedure:<ol>
        <li>Customize the <filepath>[OXYGEN_DIR]
            /frameworks/schema_documentation/xsl/xsdDocDocbook.xsl </filepath> stylesheet to include
          the content that you want to add in the PDF output. Add the content in the XSLT template
          with the <codeph>match="schemaDoc"</codeph> attribute between these two
            elements:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;info>    
  &lt;pubdate>&lt;xsl:value-of select="format-date(current-date(),'[Mn] [D], [Y]', 'en', (), ())"/>&lt;/pubdate>
&lt;/info></codeblock><codeblock outputclass="language-xml"> &lt;xsl:apply-templates select="schemaHierarchy"/></codeblock><note>The
            content that you insert here has to be wrapped in DocBook markup. For details about
            working with DocBook take a look at the video demonstration from this address <xref
              href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/demo/DocBook_Editing_in_Author.html" format="html"
              scope="external"
            >http://www.oxygenxml.com/demo/DocBook_Editing_in_Author.html</xref>.</note></li>
        <li>Create an intermediary file that holds the content of your XML Schema documentation.<ol>
            <li>Go to <menucascade>
                <uicontrol>Tools</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>Generate Documentation</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>XML Schema Documentation</uicontrol>
              </menucascade>.</li>
            <li>Click <uicontrol>Custom</uicontrol> in the <uicontrol>XML Schema
                Documentation</uicontrol> dialog box.</li>
            <li>Go to <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>.</li>
            <li>In the <uicontrol>Custom format options</uicontrol> dialog box, enable <uicontrol>
                Copy additional resources to the output folder </uicontrol>, enter: <filepath>
                [OXYGEN_DIR]/frameworks/schema_documentation/xsl/xsdDocDocbook.xsl </filepath> in
              the <uicontrol>Custom XSL</uicontrol> field and click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol>.</li>
            <li>When you return to the <uicontrol>Custom format options</uicontrol> dialog box, just
              press the <uicontrol>Generate</uicontrol> button which will generate a DocBook XML
              file with an intermediary form of the Schema documentation.</li>
          </ol></li>
        <li>Create the final PDF document.<ol>
            <li>Go to <menucascade>
                <uicontrol>Document</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol> Transformation</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol> Configure Transformation Scenario</uicontrol>
              </menucascade> and click <uicontrol>New</uicontrol>.</li>
            <li>In the <uicontrol>New Scenario</uicontrol> dialog box, go to the <uicontrol>XSL
                URL</uicontrol> field and choose the <filepath>
                [OXYGEN_DIR]/frameworks/docbook/oxygen/xsdDocDocbookCustomizationFO.xsl </filepath>
              file.</li>
            <li>Go to the <uicontrol>FO Processor</uicontrol> tab and enable <uicontrol>Perform FO
                Processing</uicontrol> and <uicontrol>XSLT result as input</uicontrol>.</li>
            <li>Go to the <uicontrol>Output</uicontrol> tab and select the directory where you want
              to store the XML Schema documentation output and click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol>.</li>
            <li>Click <uicontrol>Apply Associated</uicontrol>.</li>
          </ol></li>
      </ol></p>
  </body>
</topic>
