<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="database-perspective">
    <title>
        <ph product="editor author developer">Database Perspective</ph>
        <ph product="editorEclipse authorEclipse developerEclipse"><ph
                keyref="product"/> Database
            Perspective </ph>
    </title>
    <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>Getting Started<indexterm>perspectives<indexterm>database</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
    <body>
        <p>The <uicontrol>Database</uicontrol> perspective (<menucascade
        product="author developer editor">
        <uicontrol>Window</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Open perspective</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Database</uicontrol>
      </menucascade><menucascade product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">
        <uicontrol>Window</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Open Perspective</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>&lt;oXygen/> DB</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>) allows you to manage a database, offering support for browsing multiple
      connections at the same time, relational and native XML databases, SQL execution, XQuery
      execution and data export to XML.</p>
        <p>This perspective offers database specific support for: <ul>
        <li> Oracle Berkeley DB XML Database; </li>
        <li> eXist XML Database;</li>
        <li> IBM DB2 (Enterprise edition only); </li>
        <li> JDBC-ODBC Bridge; </li>
        <li> MarkLogic (Enterprise edition only); </li>
        <li> Microsoft SQL Server 2005 and Microsoft SQL Server 2008 (Enterprise edition only); </li>
        <li> MySQL;</li>
        <li> Oracle 11g (Enterprise edition only); </li>
        <li> PostgreSQL 8.3 (Enterprise edition only); </li>
        <li>
                    <ph conref="oxygenEntitiesDictionary.dita#OxygenEntities/xhiveDB"/> XML Database
                    (Enterprise edition only); </li>
        <li>
                    <ph conref="oxygenEntitiesDictionary.dita#OxygenEntities/documentumCMS"/> 6.5
                    (Enterprise edition only). </li>
      </ul>
    </p>
        <p>The XML capabilities of the databases marked in this list with "Enterprise edition only"
            are available only in the Enterprise edition of <ph
                keyref="product"/>. The non-XML
            capabilities of any database listed here are available also in the Academic and
            Professional editions of <ph
                keyref="product"/> by registering the
            database driver as a generic JDBC driver (the <i>Generic JDBC</i> type in the list of
            driver types) when <xref href="relational-database-support.dita">defining the data
                source</xref> for accessing the database in <ph
                keyref="product"/>. </p>
        <p>The non-XML capabilities are:<ul>
                <li>browsing the structure of the database instance;</li>
                <li>opening a database table in the <uicontrol>Table Explorer</uicontrol> view;</li>
                <li>handling the values from <uicontrol>XML Type</uicontrol> columns as String
          values.</li>
            </ul> The XML capabilities are:<ul>
                <li>displaying an XML Schema node in the tree of the database structure (for
                    databases with such an XML specific structure) with actions for
                    opening/editing/validating the schemas in an <ph
                        keyref="product"/> editor
                    panel;</li>
                <li>handling the values from columns of type XML Type as XML instance documents that
                    can be opened and edited in an <ph
                        keyref="product"/> editor
                    panel;</li>
                <li>validating an XML instance document added to an XML Type column of a table,
                    etc.</li>
            </ul></p>
        <p>For a detailed feature matrix that compares the Academic, Professional and Enterprise
            editions of <ph keyref="product"/> please
                <xref href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/feature_matrix.html" scope="external"
                format="html">go to the <ph
                    keyref="product"/>
            website</xref>.</p>
        <note>Only connections configured on relational data sources can be used to import data to
      XML or to generate XML schemas. </note>
    <p>The perspective provides the following functional areas: <ul id="ul_uxn_yqc_q4">
        <li>Main menu - provides access to all the features and functions available within <ph
            keyref="product"/>.</li>
        <li>Main toolbar - provides easy access to common and frequently used functions. Each icon
          is a button that acts as a shortcut to a related function. </li>
        <li>Editor area - the place where you spend most of your time, reading, editing, applying
          markup and validating your documents.</li>
        <li>Data Source Explorer - provides browsing support for the configured connections.</li>
        <li>Table explorer - provides table content editing support for inserting new rows, deleting
          table rows, cell value editing, export to XML file.</li>
      </ul></p>
    </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="editor-perspective.dita#editor-perspective"/>
    <link href="xslt-debugger-perspective.dita#xslt-debugger-perspective"
      product="developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse"/>
    <link href="xquery-debugger-perspective.dita#xquery-debugger-perspective"
      product="developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse"/>
  </related-links>
</topic>