<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="dcpp_how_to_make_chapters_individual_publications">
	<title>How to Make Chapters Look Like Individual Publications </title>
	<body>
		<note>This topic is only for the <codeph>pdf-css</codeph> transformation type.</note>
		<p>Sometimes you want to make each chapter independent, i.e. it can be read separately, as an
			separate part of your publication. For this you need the page counter, figure and table
			counters to restart at each chapter.</p>
		<p>Depending on the numbering you prefer, you should use different CSS rules.</p>
		<section id="section_k5j_fxz_ghb">
			<title>Deep Numbering</title>
			<p>If you are using <b>deep numbering</b> - you have activated the parameter
					<codeph>args.css.param.numbering=deep</codeph> - then you can use this CSS snippet:</p>
			<codeblock outputclass="language-css">
/* 
 * Reset all relevant counters
 */
*[class ~= "topic/topic"][is-chapter]:not([is-part]) {
    counter-reset: page 1 section1 0 figcount 0 tablecount 0 !important;
} 

/* 
 * Get rid of the chapter number from the titles in the TOC and Content.
 * Keep only sub-sections counters. 
 */

/* 
 * TOC
 */
*[class ~= "map/map"][*|numbering='deep']  *[class ~= "map/topicref"][is-chapter]:not([is-part]) > *[class ~= "map/topicmeta"]:before {
    content: "" !important;
}
*[class ~= "map/map"][*|numbering='deep']  *[class ~= "map/topicref"][is-chapter]:not([is-part]) > *[class ~= "map/topicref"] > *[class ~= "map/topicmeta"]:before {
    content: counter(toc-section1) ". " !important;
}
*[class ~= "map/map"][*|numbering='deep']  *[class ~= "map/topicref"][is-chapter]:not([is-part]) > *[class ~= "map/topicref"] > *[class ~= "map/topicref"] > *[class ~= "map/topicmeta"]:before {
    content: counter(toc-section1) "." counter(toc-section2) ". " !important;
}
*[class ~= "map/map"][*|numbering='deep']  *[class ~= "map/topicref"][is-chapter]:not([is-part]) > *[class ~= "map/topicref"] > *[class ~= "map/topicref"] > *[class ~= "map/topicref"] > *[class ~= "map/topicmeta"]:before {
    content: counter(toc-section1) "." counter(toc-section2) "." counter(toc-section3) ". " !important;
}

/* 
 * Content.
 */
*[class ~= "map/map"][*|numbering='deep'] *[class ~= "topic/topic"][is-chapter]:not([is-part]) > *[class ~= "topic/title"]:before{
        content: "" !important;
}
*[class ~= "map/map"][*|numbering='deep'] *[class ~= "topic/topic"][is-chapter]:not([is-part]) > *[class ~= "topic/topic"] > *[class ~= "topic/title"]:before{
        content: counter(section1) ". " !important;
}
*[class ~= "map/map"][*|numbering='deep'] *[class ~= "topic/topic"][is-chapter]:not([is-part]) > *[class ~= "topic/topic"] > *[class ~= "topic/topic"] > *[class ~= "topic/title"]:before{
        content: counter(section1) "." counter(section2) ". " !important;
}
*[class ~= "map/map"][*|numbering='deep'] *[class ~= "topic/topic"][is-chapter]:not([is-part]) > *[class ~= "topic/topic"] > *[class ~= "topic/topic"] > *[class ~= "topic/topic"] > *[class ~= "topic/title"]:before{
        content: counter(section1) "." counter(section2) "." counter(section3) ". " !important;
}
</codeblock>
		</section>
		<section id="section_xvv_23b_hhb">
			<title>Shallow Numbering</title>
			<p>If you are using <b>shallow numbering</b> -  then you can use this CSS snippet:</p>
			<codeblock outputclass="language-css">
/* 
 * Reset all relevant counters
 */
*[class ~= "topic/topic"][is-chapter]:not([is-part]) {
    counter-reset: page 1 section1 0 figcount 0 tablecount 0 !important;
} 
/* 
 * Get rid of the chapter number from the titles in the TOC and Content.
 */

/* 
 * TOC
 */
*[class ~= "map/topicref"][is-chapter]:not([is-part]) > *[class ~= "map/topicmeta"] > *[class ~= "topic/navtitle"]:before{
    content:"" !important;
}

/* 
 * Content.
 */
*[class ~= "topic/topic"][is-chapter]:not([is-part]) > *[class ~= "topic/title"]:before {
    content: "";
}
</codeblock>
		</section>
	</body>
</topic>
