<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="dcpp_how_to_style_the_table_of_contents_for_chapters">
    <title>How to Style the Table of Contents for Chapters (Minitoc)</title>
    <body>
        <p>Consider that you do not want the links and the chapter description to be side by side,
			but instead place the links above the description. More than this, you may choose to remove
			the label above the links, and put all the links in a colored rectangle, with decimal numbers
			before them.</p>
		<p>In your <xref href="dcpp_the_customization_css.dita">customization CSS</xref>, add the
			following selectors: </p>
		<codeblock outputclass="language-css">/* Change from inline to blocks to stack them one over the other. */

*[class~="chapter/minitoc-desc"],
*[class~="chapter/minitoc-links"] {
	display: block;
	width: 100%;
}
/* No need for the 'Topics:' label. */
*[class~="chapter/minitoc-links"] *[class~="topic/desc"] {
	display:none;
}

/* Add background for the links list. */
*[class~="chapter/minitoc-links"] {
	background-color:silver;
	padding:0.5em;
}

/* Remove the border and the padding from the description. We do not need that separator. */
*[class~="chapter/minitoc-desc"] {
	border-left:none;
	padding-left:0;
}

/* Add a number before each of the links. */
*[class~="chapter/minitoc-links"] *[class~="topic/link"] {
	display:list-item;
	list-style-type:decimal;
	margin-left:1em;
}</codeblock>
    </body>
	<related-links>
		<link href="dcpp_how_to_speed_up_css_development_and_debugging.dita"/>
	</related-links>
</topic>
