<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="dcpp_how_to_use_a_two_column_layout">
  <title>How to Use a Two Column Layout</title>
  <body>
    <section id="section_ph5_lxy_3fb">
      <title>Change Layout for Predefined Pages.</title>
      <p id="p_rps_cgk_54b">First you need to identify which of the pages need to be changed. Pages are already defined
        for the cover page, table of contents, chapter content, and others. The complete list is
        here: <xref href="dcpp_default_page_definitions_css.dita"/>.</p>
      <p id="p_sps_cgk_54b">Next, add the <codeph>column-count</codeph> and <codeph>column-gap</codeph> properties to
        that page. For example:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_tps_cgk_54b">@page chapter{  
  column-count:2;
  column-gap:1in;
}</codeblock>
      <p id="p_ups_cgk_54b">If you need some of the elements to expand on all the columns, use the
          <codeph>column-span:all</codeph> CSS property. The next snippet makes the chapter titles
        span both columns:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_vps_cgk_54b">*[class ~= "topic/topic"][is-chapter] > *[class ~= "topic/title"] {
  column-span:all;
}</codeblock>
      <note conkeyref="reusables-dcpp-chemistry-sa-ec/multiple-column-limitation" id="note_wps_cgk_54b"/>
    </section>
    <section id="section_ixc_4xy_3fb">
      <title>Change Layout for a Specific Topic.</title>
      <p id="p_xps_cgk_54b">If you need to have a different column layout just for one topic, you can use the following
        technique:</p>
      <ol id="ol_wp3_zwy_3fb">
        <li id="li_yps_cgk_54b">Define an <codeph>outputclass</codeph> on the topic root
          element.<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_zps_cgk_54b">&lt;topic outputclass="two_columns" ...</codeblock></li>
        <li id="li_aqs_cgk_54b">Define a CSS rule that changes the <codeph>page</codeph> property for the matching
            element.<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_bqs_cgk_54b">*[class ~= "two_columns"],
*[outputclass ~= "two_columns"]{ 
  page: two_column_page !important; 
}</codeblock><note
            type="tip" id="note_cqs_cgk_54b">In the selector, use the <codeph>class</codeph> attribute for the HTML
            transformation, or <codeph>outputclass</codeph> for the direct transformation, or leave
            them both if you are not sure.</note><note id="note_dqs_cgk_54b">The topics from the first level use the
              <codeph>chapter</codeph> page. You must use <codeph>!important</codeph> because the
            built-in rules are more specific and you need to override the <codeph>page</codeph>
            property.</note></li>
        <li id="li_eqs_cgk_54b">Define a page
          layout.<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_fqs_cgk_54b">@page two_column_page {
  column-count: 2;
}</codeblock></li>
      </ol>
      <p id="p_gqs_cgk_54b">Note that the topic will be separated from other sibling topics with different page layouts
        by page breaks.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_ddk_5q1_55b">
      <title>Change Column Breaks for Headings</title>
      <p>If you need to start each topic on a new column, you can use the following technique:</p>
      <p>Let's say you have the following
        map:<codeblock id="codeblock_upy_xq1_55b" outputclass="language-xml">&lt;map>
    &lt;title>Map&lt;/title>
    &lt;topicref href="first.dita">
        &lt;topicref href="second.dita"/>
    &lt;/topicref>
    &lt;topichead navtitle="Topichead">
        &lt;topicref href="second.dita"/>
    &lt;/topichead>
&lt;/map></codeblock></p>
      <p>You can use the following rules to get the chapter on new column
        display:<codeblock id="codeblock_lyp_hr1_55b" outputclass="language-css">@page {
  column-count: 2;
}
*[class ~= "topic/topic"] *[class ~= "topic/topic"] > *[class ~= "topic/title"] {
  -oxy-column-break-before: always;
}
*[class ~= "topic/title"] + *[class ~= "topic/topic"] > *[class ~= "topic/title"] {
  -oxy-column-break-before: auto;
}</codeblock></p>
      <p>Each topic will be displayed on a new column except topics having only a title and no
        content.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-chemistry/topics/ch_the_page_rule.html"
        format="html" scope="external">
        <linktext>Page Formatting in Oxygen PDF Chemistry</linktext>
      </link>
      <link href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-chemistry/topics/ch_columns.html" format="html"
        scope="external">
        <linktext>Multiple Page Formatting in Oxygen PDF Chemistry</linktext>
      </link>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
