<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="dcpp_how_to_speed_up_css_development_and_debugging">
  <title>How to Speed up CSS Development and Debugging</title>
  <taskbody>
    <context id="context_vtz_2kn_cfb">
      <p>You can speed up your CSS development considerably by not invoking the entire pipeline of
        transforming your DITA maps to PDF. Instead, you can use the merged map and transform it
        directly to PDF.</p>
    </context>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Transform your DITA Map to PDF using the <uicontrol>DITA Map PDF - based on HTML5 &amp;
            CSS</uicontrol> or <uicontrol>DITA Map PDF - based on DITA &amp; CSS</uicontrol>
          transformation scenario.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Open the <xref
            href="dcpp_debugging_the_css.dita#dcpp_debugging_the_css/merged_map_file">merged
            file</xref> (*.merged.html or *.merged.xml) that is located in the output directory in
          the editor.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Configure a <uicontrol>XML to PDF transformation with CSS</uicontrol> scenario. Do not
          set CSS files here since the merged file already contains pointers to the stylesheets.
          This scenario uses the Chemistry CSS processor.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step importance="optional">
        <cmd>Enable the output of the CSS processor using the following preferences page: <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>XML</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>PDF Processors</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>CSS Processor</uicontrol>
          </menucascade>.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>
    <result id="result_nrt_1mn_cfb">
      <p>Now you can make incremental changes to the CSS stylesheet and quickly see the results by
        transforming the merged file directly.<note type="fastpath">If your changes involve only
          element styling, with no specific paged media CSS rules and properties, you can simply
          open the merged file in a browser (such as Chrome or Firefox) and refresh at each CSS
          change, as shown in: <xref href="dcpp_debugging_the_css.dita"/>.</note></p>
    </result>
  </taskbody>
</task>
