<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="dcpp_why_using_a_bookmap">
    <title>Why Using a Bookmap</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
            ><ph keyref="pdf-html5-transformation"/><indexterm>Bookmap</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm product="pdf-css ope">Bookmap</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_q3v_cgk_54b">Using a plain DITA Map, the transformation will produce a publication with
      a front page, a table of contents, chapters with content, and an index at the end. This is
      appropriate for most cases, but there are use cases where some adjustments are necessary. For
      example, if you want to do one of the following: <ul id="ul_llc_h3b_rfb">
        <li id="li_r3v_cgk_54b">Remove the TOC or index.</li>
        <li id="li_s3v_cgk_54b">Add a glossary.</li>
        <li id="li_t3v_cgk_54b">Change the position of the TOC or the index relative to the sibling
          topics.</li>
        <li id="li_u3v_cgk_54b">Add a <term>preface</term>, <term>frontmatter</term>, or
            <term>backmatter</term> with copyright notices, abstracts, list of tables, list of
          figures, etc.</li>
      </ul>All of these can be achieved using a DITA <xmlelement>bookmap</xmlelement> element.</p>
    <p id="p_v3v_cgk_54b">A bookmap has a more elaborate structure than a regular map. You should
      start by defining the title structure, with a main title and alternative
      title:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_w3v_cgk_54b">&lt;!DOCTYPE bookmap PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA BookMap//EN"  "bookmap.dtd">
&lt;bookmap id="taskbook">
  &lt;booktitle>
    &lt;mainbooktitle>Publication Title&lt;/mainbooktitle>
    &lt;booktitlealt>A very short description of the publication&lt;/booktitlealt>
  &lt;/booktitle></codeblock></p>
    <p id="p_x3v_cgk_54b">Then you may define a <term>frontmatter</term>. For this, you can link the
      topics that need to appear before the main content. You can also define the location where the
      table of contents will be placed. In the example below, it appears between the
        <filepath>abstract.dita</filepath> and <filepath>foreword.dita</filepath>
        topics:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_y3v_cgk_54b">  &lt;frontmatter>
    &lt;topicref href="topics/abstract.dita"/>
    &lt;booklists>
      &lt;toc/>
    &lt;/booklists>
    &lt;topicref href="topics/foreword.dita"/>
  &lt;/frontmatter></codeblock><note id="note_z3v_cgk_54b">To remove the TOC from the
        publication, just omit the <xmlelement>toc</xmlelement> element from the
          <xmlelement>booklists</xmlelement> element.</note></p>
    <p id="p_ajv_cgk_54b">Next, the topics are grouped into
        chapters:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_bjv_cgk_54b">  ...
  &lt;chapter href="topics/installation.dita" />
  ...</codeblock><note id="note_xlc_thx_hdc">If you need more levels you can use the
          <xmlelement>part</xmlelement> element and then group your chapters under it.</note></p>
    <p id="p_cjv_cgk_54b">At the end, you could define the structure of the <term>backmatter</term>.
      Just like for the <term>frontmatter</term>, you can include some topics and some generated
      content (such as the index). In the example below, the glossary is defined to come after the
      index, followed by a list of figures and list of tables. At the very end, there is a topic
      with some thank you
      notes:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_djv_cgk_54b">  &lt;backmatter>
    &lt;topicref href="topics/conclusion.dita"/>
    &lt;booklists>
      &lt;indexlist/>

      &lt;glossarylist>
        &lt;topicref href="topics/xp.dita" keys="xp" print="yes" />
        &lt;topicref href="topics/anti_lock_braking_system.dita" keys="abs" print="yes" />
      &lt;/glossarylist>

      &lt;figurelist/>
      &lt;tablelist/>     
    &lt;/booklists>
    &lt;topicref href="topics/thanks.dita"/>
  &lt;/backmatter></codeblock></p>
    <p id="p_ejv_cgk_54b">As you can see, the bookmap offers much better control over the final
      content of the publication. It also offers more options in controlling the metadata that will
      go into the PDF (see the <xref href="dcpp_metadata.dita"/> topic).</p>
  </body>
</topic>
