<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="dcpp_how_to_use_a_publishing_template_html5_css">
  <title>Using a Template in DITA Map PDF - based on HTML5 and CSS Transformations</title>
  <body>
    <p>The <uicontrol>Templates</uicontrol> tab in the <uicontrol>DITA Map PDF - based on HTML5
        &amp; CSS</uicontrol> transformation scenario dialog displays all the templates that are
      available in your template gallery. To use a particular template in the transformation
      scenario, simply select it from this tab and then continue configuring the transformation
      using the other tabs to suit your needs.</p>
    <p id="add-to-gallery">To add the publishing template to your templates gallery, follow these steps:<ol>
        <li>Open the transformation scenario dialog box by editing a <uicontrol>DITA Map PDF - based
            on HTML5 &amp; CSS</uicontrol> transformation.</li>
        <li>In the <uicontrol>Templates</uicontrol> tab, click the <uicontrol>Configure Publishing
            Templates Gallery</uicontrol> link to.<p>
            <b>Step Result:</b> This will open the preferences page.</p></li>
        <li>Click the <uicontrol>Add</uicontrol> button and specify the location of your template directory.<p>
            <b>Step Result:</b> Your template directory is now added to the <uicontrol>Additional
              Publishing Templates Galleries</uicontrol> list.</p></li>
        <li>Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> to return to the transformation scenario dialog box.<p>
            <b>Step Result:</b> All the templates contained in your template directory will be
            displayed in the preview pane along with all the built-in templates.</p>
        </li>
      </ol>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
