<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="dcpp_how_to_change_the_separators_between_chapters_and_sections">
    <title>How to Change the Header Separators (Between Sections and Chapter Titles)</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
          ><ph keyref="wysywig-or-html5-transformation"/><indexterm>Header<indexterm>Change
              separators</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm product="pdf-css">Header<indexterm>Change separators</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
    <body>
    <p>There are a number of <codeph>strings</codeph> defined for part, chapter, and sections. Each
      of these strings start with the " | " character as a separator. For example, in the header of
      a page, you may find a sequence of
        strings:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini">My Publication | Introduction | Getting Started </codeblock><ol
        id="ol_ub3_s54_1db">
        <li>"My Publication" is the value of the <codeph>maptitle</codeph> string.</li>
        <li>"Introduction" is the value of the <codeph>chaptertitle</codeph> string.</li>
        <li>"Getting Started" is the value of the <codeph>sectiontitle</codeph> string.</li>
      </ol></p>
    <p>There might be cases where you want to change this separator. You will need to recompose the
      header content using the above string sets. Suppose you want to use " - " as a separator. In
      your <xref href="dcpp_the_customization_css.dita">customization CSS</xref>, add the following
      CSS rule:</p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-css">*[class ~= "topic/topic"][is-part] > *[class ~= "topic/title"] {
    string-set: parttitle " - " counter(part, upper-roman) " - " content(), chaptertitle  ""; /* Avoid propagating a past chapter title on a new part */
}
*[class ~= "topic/topic"][is-chapter]:not([is-part]) > *[class ~= "topic/title"] {
    string-set: chaptertitle " - " counter(chapter) " - " content();
}</codeblock>
    <p>If you enabled the <xref href="dcpp_css_for_deep_numbering.dita"/>, then use:</p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-css">/* 
 * Alter the string sets that are shown in the header of the page.
 */
*[class ~= "topic/topic"][is-part] > *[class ~= "topic/title"] {
    string-set: parttitle " - " counter(part, upper-roman) " - " content(), chaptertitle  ""; /* Avoid propagating a past chapter title on a new part */
}
*[class ~= "topic/topic"][is-chapter]:not([is-part]) > *[class ~= "topic/title"] {
    string-set: chaptertitle " - " counter(chapter) " - " content(), sectiontitle "";
}
*[class ~= "topic/topic"][is-chapter]:not([is-part]) > *[class ~= "topic/topic"] > *[class ~= "topic/title"] {
    string-set: sectiontitle " - " counter(chapter) "." counter(section1) " - " content();
}</codeblock>
  </body>
</topic>
