<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="dcpp_how_to_number_pages_tables_figures_within_chapter_scope">
  <title>How to Number Pages, Tables, and Figures Within Chapter Scope </title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
            ><ph keyref="html5-transformation"/><indexterm>Tables<indexterm>Table
              numbering</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm product="pdf-css">Tables<indexterm>Table numbering</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>By default, the table titles are formatted like
      this:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini">Table TT. Lore Ipsum Title</codeblock></p>
    <p>Similarly, the figures are formatted like this:</p>
    <p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-ini">Figure FF. Lore Ipsum Title</codeblock>
    </p>
    <p><i>TT</i> is the number of the table (table counter) that starts being counted from the
      beginning of the publication.</p>
    <p><i>FF</i> is the number of the figure (figure counter) that starts being counted from the
      beginning of the publication.</p>
    <p>A common use-case is to have those two counters be incremented within the scope of each
      chapter, and prefixed by the number of each chapter like in the following example for
      tables:</p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-ini">1. First Chapter
	Table 1.1 Installation
	Table 1.2 Prerequisites
2. Second Chapter
	Table 2.1 Tools
	Table 2.2 Accessories
3. Third Chapter
	Table 3.1 Cleanup</codeblock>
    <p>and similarly for the figures.</p>
    <ol>
      <li>For the HTML5 based transformation, start by disabling the automatic table and figure
        numbering. <ol id="substeps_h32_mlw_mhb">
          <li>Remove the labels from the table titles. <itemgroup>In your <xref
                href="dcpp_the_customization_css.dita">customization
              CSS</xref>:<codeblock outputclass="language-css">.table--title-label,
.fig--title-label {
  display:none;
}

*[class ~= "listentry/number"],
*[class ~= "listentry/prefix"]{
	display:none;
}		</codeblock></itemgroup>
          </li>
          <li>Make the links use only the title text. Set the transformation parameters:
              <codeph>args.tablelink.style=TITLE</codeph> and
              <codeph>args.figurelink.style=TITLE</codeph>. </li>
        </ol></li>
      <li>Reset the counters at the start of each chapter <itemgroup>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-css">*[class ~= "topic/topic"][is-chapter]{
  counter-reset:page 1 section1 tablecount figcount !important;
}  				</codeblock>
          <note>The counter-reset property is not additive, it will simply overwrite the existing
            definitions. You need to preserve the other counter resets that come from the built-in
            CSS, like the <codeph>section1</codeph> counter. </note>
        </itemgroup></li>
      <li>Increment the table counter at each table, and the figure counter at each figure.<itemgroup>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-css">*[class ~= "topic/table"]{
  counter-increment: tablecount;
}  				
*[class~="topic/fig"] {
  counter-increment: figcount;
}</codeblock>
        </itemgroup></li>
      <li>Use the chapter and table/figure counters in the titles. <itemgroup>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-css">*[class ~= "topic/table"] > caption:before {
  content: "Table " counter(chapter) "-" counter(tablecount) "  ";
} 				
*[class ~= "topic/fig"] > figcaption:before {
  content: "Figure " counter(chapter) "-" counter(figcount) "  ";
} 				</codeblock>
        </itemgroup></li>
      <li>Use the chapter and table/figure counters in the links. <itemgroup>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-css">*[class ~= "topic/xref"][type="table"],
*[class ~= "placeholder/tablelist"] *[class ~= "listentry/entry"]:before{
  content: "Table " 
  target-counter(attr(href), chapter, decimal) 
  "-" 
  target-counter(attr(href), tablecount, decimal) "  ";
}
			
*[class ~= "topic/xref"][type="fig"],
*[class ~= "placeholder/figurelist"] *[class ~= "listentry/entry"]:before {
  content: "Figure " 
  target-counter(attr(href), chapter, decimal) 
  "-" 
  target-counter(attr(href), figcount, decimal) "  ";
}</codeblock>
          <note>The <codeph>listentry/entry</codeph> are the entries from the DITA bookmap
              <xmlelement>figurelist</xmlelement> and <xmlelement>tablelist</xmlelement>
            elements.</note>
        </itemgroup><itemgroup>
          <note>The labels provided by this sample CSS are not localized. You should use the
              <codeph>:lang</codeph> selector to provide labels for other languages, if
            applicable.<codeblock outputclass="language-css">*[class ~= "topic/xref"][type="table"]:lang(fr) {
  content: "Tableau " .....
  .....
}</codeblock></note>
        </itemgroup>
      </li>
    </ol>
  </body>
</topic>
