<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="dcpp_how_to_add_a_group_of_topics_to_the_footer">
    <title>How to Add a Group of Topics to the Footer</title>
    <body>
        <p>Let see how to create a footer on only the last page, that contains the content of
      several topic files.</p>
    <p>There are two approaches:</p>
    <section id="section_csz_kl3_1gb">
      <title>Using the position:fixed CSS Property</title>
      <ol
        id="ol_mcl_dm3_1gb">
        <li>Group all the footer topics under a single parent topic, under the last topic from your
          DITA map. For example you can have the following map structure:
          <codeblock outputclass="language-ini">
...
End topic
   Footer container topic
      Footer content topic 1
      Footer content topic 2.
</codeblock></li>
        <li> Put an <xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt>=<codeph>footer</codeph> on the
            <xmlelement>topic</xmlelement> root element of the footer container topic, or on its
            <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> in the map. </li>
        <li> Use the CSS <codeph>position: fixed</codeph> to position this topic to the bottom of
          the
          page:<codeblock outputclass="language-css">*[outputclass ~= "footer"] {
  position: fixed;
  
  bottom: 0.5in;
  left: 0.5in;
  
  width:5in;
  height:200pt;  
}
          </codeblock>
        </li>
      </ol>
      <note> Make sure the width and height are enough for the content of the footer to fit. Take
        care, the content might bleed out of the page! Use bottom and left values to position the
        block in the page.</note>
    </section>
    <section id="section_hrk_vm3_1gb">
      <title>Using the float:footnote CSS Property</title>
      <p>The second approach would be to declare the footer block as a footnote. Assuming the same
        DITA Map structure as above</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css">*[outputclass ~= "footer"] {
  float:footnote;
}

*[outputclass ~= "footer"]:footnote-call{
  color:transparent;  
  font-size:0;
}

*[outputclass ~= "footer"]:footnote-marker{
  color:transparent;  
  font-size:0;
}</codeblock>
      <note>Use transparent colors and/or zero size font to avoid the display of the footnote
        counters.</note>
    </section>
    </body>
</topic>
