<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="dcpp_control_the_content_of_bookmaps">
  <title>Controlling the Publication Content</title>
  <body>
    <p>Using a plain DITA map, the transformation will produce a publication with a front page, a
      table of contents, chapters with content, and an index at the end. This is appropriate for
      most cases, but there are use cases where some adjustments are necessary. For example, if you
      want to do one of the following: <ul id="ul_llc_h3b_rfb">
        <li>Remove the TOC or index.</li>
        <li>Add a glossary.</li>
        <li>Change the position of the TOC or the index relative to the sibling topics.</li>
        <li>Add a preface, frontmatter, or backmatter with copyright notices, abstracts, list of
          tables, list of figures, etc.</li>
      </ul>All of these can be achieved using a DITA <b>bookmap</b>.</p>
    <p>A bookmap has a more elaborate structure than a regular map. You should start by defining the
      title structure, with a main title and alternative title:</p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;!DOCTYPE bookmap PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA BookMap//EN"  "bookmap.dtd">
&lt;bookmap id="taskbook">
  &lt;booktitle>
    &lt;mainbooktitle>Publication Title&lt;/mainbooktitle>
    &lt;booktitlealt>A very short description of the publication&lt;/booktitlealt>
  &lt;/booktitle></codeblock>
    <p>Then you may define a front matter. In this, you may link the topics that need to appear
      before the main content. You may also define the location where the table of contents will be
      placed. In the example below, it appears between the "abstract" and "foreword" topics: </p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">  &lt;frontmatter>
    &lt;topicref href="topics/abstract.dita"/>
    &lt;booklists>
      &lt;toc/>
    &lt;/booklists>
    &lt;topicref href="topics/foreword.dita"/>
  &lt;/frontmatter></codeblock>
    <note>To remove the TOC from the publication, just omit the <xmlelement>toc</xmlelement> element
      from the <xmlelement>booklists</xmlelement>.</note>
    <p>Next, the topics are grouped into chapters:</p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">  ...
  &lt;chapter href="topics/installation.dita" />
  ...</codeblock>
    <p>At the end, you could define the structure of the backmatter. Just like for the frontmatter,
      you can include some topics and some generated content, such as the index. In the example
      below, it is defined that the glossary should come after the index, followed by a list of
      figures and list of tables. At the very end, there is a topic with some thank you notes.</p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">  &lt;backmatter>
    &lt;topicref href="topics/conclusion.dita"/>
    &lt;booklists>
      &lt;indexlist/>

      &lt;glossarylist>
        &lt;topicref href="topics/xp.dita" keys="xp" print="yes" />
        &lt;topicref href="topics/anti_lock_braking_system.dita" keys="abs" print="yes" />
      &lt;/glossarylist>

      &lt;figurelist/>
      &lt;tablelist/>     
    &lt;/booklists>
    &lt;topicref href="topics/thanks.dita"/>
  &lt;/backmatter></codeblock>
    <p>As you can see, the bookmap offers a much better control over the final content of the
      publication. It also offers more options in controlling the metadata that will go into the PDF
      (see the <xref href="dcpp_metadata.dita"/> topic).</p>
  </body>
</topic>
