<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="dcpp_how_to_set_fonts_for_displaying_music">
    <title>How to Set Fonts for Displaying Music</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
            ><ph keyref="pdf-html5-transformation"
            /><indexterm>Fonts<indexterm>Music</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm product="pdf-css ope">Fonts<indexterm>Music</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
    <body>
    <p>Music is rendered as normal text in the majority of fonts, but some of them will render them
      as musical glyphs. For example, the <term>MusGlyphs</term> font converts the text to music and
      adjusts it to the surrounding text.</p>
    <p>This font is divided in two sub-fonts that act for each of the following categories:<ul
        id="ul_vgw_xxg_wrb">
        <li><uicontrol>MusGlyphs</uicontrol> - Converts all characters that match a musical pattern
          into music glyphs. It should be used inside the elements that contain only music.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>MusGlyphs-Text</uicontrol> - Converts only the text prefixed with the
            <codeph>@</codeph> symbol into music glyphs. The remaining text is displayed
          normally.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>To use this font, you simply need to declare each sub-font then use them in appropriate
      elements:<codeblock id="codeblock_nb5_1xg_wrb" outputclass="language-css">@font-face {
  font-family: MusGlyphs;
  font-style: normal;
  font-weight: 400;
  src: url(../fonts/otf/musglyphs/MusGlyphs.otf);
}
@font-face {
  font-family: MusGlyphs-Text;
  font-style: normal;
  font-weight: 400;
  src: url(../fonts/otf/musglyphs/MusGlyphs-Text.otf);
}
@font-face {
  font-family: MusGlyphs-Text;
  font-style: normal;
  font-weight: bold;
  src: url(../fonts/otf/musglyphs/MusGlyphs-TextBold.otf);
}

/* 
 * All the elements are displayed with the MusGlyphs-Text.
 * If a text is prefixed with @, music will be displayed. 
 */
body {
  font-family: MusGlyphs-Text, serif;
}

/* Elements with @outputclass="music" contain only music. */
*[outputclass ~= "music"] {
  font-family: MusGlyphs, serif;
}</codeblock></p>
    </body>
</topic>
