<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="dcpp_how_to_rotate_the_contents_from_a_table_cell">
  <title>How to Rotate Content from a Table Cell</title>
  <body>
    <p>There are cases where you want to style the first column as a kind of table header, with
      vertical text. </p>
    <p>There is an important thing to remember: you can rotate an element from a table cell, but not
      the cell itself. So, your DITA table cell should contain a <xmlelement>div</xmlelement> or a
        <xmlelement>p</xmlelement> element that will be rotated. The cell has to be marked somehow
      so that it can be matched from the CSS. One way is to set an <xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt>
      attribute on it, another will be to mark the table and then match the first entries from
      it.</p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">  &lt;row>
      ...
      &lt;entry outputclass="rotated">
            &lt;p>Rotated&lt;/p>
      &lt;/entry>
      ...
 &lt;/row></codeblock>
    <p>In your <xref href="dcpp_the_customization_css.dita">customization CSS</xref>, use the
      following rule that matches the child of the entry:</p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-css">*[class ~= "topic/row"] > *[class ~= "topic/entry"][outputclass ~= "rotated"] {
  width: 1em; /* This gives the table column its width. It is the height of the rotated elemnet - assuming it contains just one line. */
  padding-top: 14em; /* Increase this until the entire vertical text fits into the cell. */
}
   
*[outputclass ~= "rotated"] > * {
        transform: rotate(-90deg) !important;
        width:1em; /* This also gives the table column its width. */
        height:1em; /* This is the effective width after rotation. */
        border: 1pt solid red; /* Just for debug */
        background-color:yellow; /* Just for debug */
        hyphens:manual; /* Disable hyphenation, to force the text extend out of the small bounds - the parent rotated entry has enough padding to accomodate it. */
        padding: 0;
        margin: 0;
}</codeblock>
    <p>The padding and margins are set to zero to clear any space that may come from other rules.
      The width is required - it will become the height of the cell. </p>
  </body>
</topic>
