<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="dcpp_metadata___built_in_css_rules">
    <title>Metadata - Built-in CSS rules</title>
    <body>
        <p>The <filepath>[PLUGIN_DIR]/css/p-meta.css</filepath> file contains the rules that extract
      metadata. The <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> can be used as a child of
        <codeph>map</codeph>, or a <codeph>topicref</codeph>. The map
        <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> is moved into the <xmlelement>oxy:front-page</xmlelement>
      element, so its local name is used to differentiate between the two cases and the CSS
      selectors will start with it. </p>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-css">/*
 * ================================================
 * 
 * PDF metadata
 * 
 * ================================================
 */    
@media oxygen-chemistry {


/* 
 * Titles (maps).
 */
*[class ~= "map/map"] > *[class ~= "topic/title"] {
    -oxy-pdf-meta-title: content();
}
*[class ~= "map/map"][title] {
    -oxy-pdf-meta-title: attr(title);
}

/* 
 * Titles (bookmaps).
 */
front-page *[class ~= "bookmap/booktitle"] > *[class ~= "bookmap/mainbooktitle"] {
    -oxy-pdf-meta-title: content();
}

/* 
 * Subject (bookmaps), using the alternate title.
 */
front-page *[class ~= "bookmap/booktitle"] > *[class ~= "bookmap/booktitlealt"] {
    -oxy-pdf-meta-description: content();
}


/* 
 * Author (maps and bookmaps)
 *  
 * Bookmeta is a specialization of topicmeta.
 */
front-page *[class ~= "map/topicmeta"] > *[class ~= "topic/author"] {
    -oxy-pdf-meta-author: content();
}

/* 
 * Created (maps and bookmaps)
 */
front-page  *[class ~= "map/topicmeta"] > *[class ~= "topic/critdates"] > *[class ~= "topic/created"] {
    -oxy-pdf-meta-custom: "Created" attr(date);
}

/* 
 * Revised (maps and bookmaps) - can have multiple occurences, so we aggregate them.
 */
front-page *[class ~= "map/topicmeta"] > *[class ~= "topic/critdates"]:has(*[class ~= "topic/revised"]) {
    -oxy-pdf-meta-custom: "Revised" oxy_xpath('string-join(*[contains(@class, " topic/revised ")]/@modified, ", " )');
}

/* 
 * Keywords (maps and bookmaps).
 */
front-page *[class ~= "map/topicmeta"] > *[class ~= "topic/keywords"] > *[class ~= "topic/keyword"] {
    -oxy-pdf-meta-keyword: content(); 
}

/* 
 * Organizaton holding the  book rights. (bookmaps)
 */
front-page *[class ~= "bookmap/bookmeta"] > *[class ~= "bookmap/bookrights"] > *[class ~= "bookmap/bookowner"] {
    -oxy-pdf-meta-custom: "Book rights owner" content();
}

/* 
 * ISBN (bookmaps)
 */
front-page *[class ~= "bookmap/bookmeta"] > *[class ~= "bookmap/bookid"] > *[class ~= "bookmap/isbn"] {
    -oxy-pdf-meta-custom: "ISBN" content();
}

/* 
 * Maintainer (bookmaps)
 */
front-page *[class ~= "bookmap/bookmeta"] > *[class ~= "bookmap/bookid"] > *[class ~= "bookmap/maintainer"] {
    -oxy-pdf-meta-custom: "Maintainer" content();
}

}


/*
 * Reset the topicmeta styles, in editor are used uses colors.
 * The topicmeta is used in the metadata section of the map, but 
 * also in each topicref from the TOC.
 * The metadata section from the map is hidden.
 */
*[class~="map/topicmeta"] {
	border-color: transparent;
	color:inherit;
	background-color: inherit;
   	border:none;
   	margin:0;
   	padding:0;
}
*[class~="map/topicmeta"]:before {
	content: none;
}</codeblock>        <note conkeyref="reusables-dcpp.dita/rc-css-fragment-disclaimer-note"/>
    </body>
</topic>
