<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="dcpp_how_to_change_the_header_separators">
  <title>How to Change the Header Separators</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
            ><ph keyref="pdf-html5-transformation"/><indexterm>Header<indexterm>Change
              separators</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm product="pdf-css ope">Header<indexterm>Change separators</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_c1r_cgk_54b">There are some <codeph>strings</codeph> defined for parts, chapters, and
      sections. Each of these strings start with the " | " character as a separator. For example, in
      the header of a page, you may find a sequence of
        strings:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini" id="codeblock_d1r_cgk_54b">My Publication | Introduction | Getting Started </codeblock><ul
        id="ol_ub3_s54_1db">
        <li id="li_e1r_cgk_54b">"My Publication" is the value of the <codeph>maptitle</codeph>
          string.</li>
        <li id="li_f1r_cgk_54b">"Introduction" is the value of the <codeph>chaptertitle</codeph>
          string.</li>
        <li id="li_g1r_cgk_54b">"Getting Started" is the value of the <codeph>sectiontitle</codeph>
          string.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p id="p_h1r_cgk_54b">There might be cases where you want to change this separator. You will
      need to recompose the header content using the above string sets. Suppose you want to use " -
      " as a separator. In your <xref href="dcpp_the_customization_css.dita">customization
        CSS</xref>, add the following CSS
      rule:<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_i1r_cgk_54b">*[class ~= "topic/topic"][is-part] > *[class ~= "topic/title"] {
  string-set: parttitle " - " counter(part, upper-roman) " - " content(), 
              parttitle-no-prefix " " counter(part, upper-roman) " - " content(), 
              chaptertitle "", 
              chaptertitle-no-prefix "", 
              chaptertitle-only ""; /* Avoid propagating a past chapter title on a new part */
}
*[class ~= "topic/topic"][is-chapter]:not([is-part]) > *[class ~= "topic/title"] {
  string-set: chaptertitle " - " counter(chapter) " - " content(), 
              chaptertitle-no-prefix " " counter(chapter) " - " content(), 
              chaptertitle-only " " content();
}</codeblock></p>
    <p id="p_j1r_cgk_54b">If you enabled the <xref href="dcpp_numbering_types.dita">deep numbering
        for chapters and subsections</xref>, then
        use:<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_k1r_cgk_54b">*[class ~= "map/map"][numbering ^= 'deep'] *[class ~= "topic/topic"][is-part] > *[class ~= "topic/title"] {
  string-set: parttitle " - " counter(part, upper-roman) " - " content(), 
              parttitle-no-prefix " " counter(part, upper-roman) " - " content(), 
              chaptertitle "", 
              chaptertitle-no-prefix "", 
              chaptertitle-only ""; /* Avoid propagating a past chapter title on a new part */
}
*[class ~= "map/map"][numbering ^= 'deep'] *[class ~= "topic/topic"][is-chapter]:not([is-part]) > *[class ~= "topic/title"] {
  string-set: chaptertitle " - " counters(chapter-and-sections, ".") " - " content(), 
              chaptertitle-no-prefix " " counters(chapter-and-sections, ".") " - " content(), 
              chaptertitle-only " " content(), 
              sectiontitle ""; /* Avoid propagating a past section title on a new chapter */
}
*[class ~= "map/map"][numbering ^= 'deep'] *[class ~= "topic/topic"][is-chapter]:not([is-part]) > *[class ~= "topic/topic"] > *[class ~= "topic/title"] {
  string-set: sectiontitle " - " counters(chapter-and-sections, ".") " - " content();
}</codeblock><note id="note_uzq_34m_qdc">Always keep in mind <codeph>string-set</codeph>
        property is not additive (like the majority of CSS properties) so defining new string-sets
        using the same selector will override the default values.</note></p>
  </body>
</topic>
