<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="dcpp_parameters">
  <title>Transformation Parameters</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Transformation parameters</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_lwp_cgk_54b">This list includes the most common customization parameters that are
      available in the <b>DITA Map PDF - based on HTML5 &amp; CSS</b> transformation scenario. Other
      standard DITA-OT parameters were omitted for clarity, but they are supported.<note
        id="note_rnv_mn1_5tb">These parameters must be prefixed by "-D" when used from a command
        line.</note></p>
    <table id="table_mns_3zw_rcb" frame="all" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
      <tgroup cols="2">
        <colspec colnum="1" colname="c1" colwidth="1*" rowsep="1"/>
        <colspec colnum="2" colname="c2" colwidth="2.11*" rowsep="1"/>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry>antenna-house.option.setting.file</entry>
            <entry>Path to the Antenna House Option Setting File (eg:
                <filepath>C:\path\to\formatter\options\settings.xml</filepath> on Windows).</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>args.allow.external.coderefs</entry>
            <entry>Enables the inclusion of code files that are located outside the DITA map folder
              hierarchy, referenced using the DITA <xmlelement>coderef</xmlelement> element. Allowed
              values are <b>yes</b> or <b>no</b> (default).</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>args.chapter.layout</entry>
            <entry>
              <p id="p_mwp_cgk_54b">Specifies whether chapter-level TOCs are generated for bookmaps. When set to
                  <b>MINITOC</b>, a small section with links is added at the beginning of each
                chapter. The default is <b>BASIC</b>. For details, see: <xref
                  href="dcpp_table_of_contents_for_chapters.dita"/>.</p>
              <p id="p_nwp_cgk_54b">Allowed values:</p>
              <ul id="ul_gjm_zk2_3hb">
                <li id="li_owp_cgk_54b"><b>BASIC</b> - No chapter TOC is created.</li>
                <li id="li_pwp_cgk_54b"><b>MINITOC</b> - A chapter-level TOC is generated.</li>
                <li id="li_qwp_cgk_54b"><b>MINITOC-BOTTOM-LINKS</b> - A chapter-level TOC is
                  generated, with the links under the chapter description.</li>
              </ul>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>args.css</entry>
            <entry>You can use this to specify a list of CSS URLs to be used in addition to those
              specified in the publishing template. The files must have URL syntax and be separated
              using semicolons.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>args.css.param.*</entry>
            <entry>You can use this parameter pattern to set attributes on the root of the merged
              map. This means you can activate specific CSS rules from your custom CSS using custom
              attributes. For examples, see: <xref href="dcpp_parametrized_styling.dita"/>.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>args.css.param.clone-referenced-footnotes</entry>
            <entry>You can use this parameter to control the footnotes behavior:<ul
                id="ul_ytt_zrk_nwb">
                <li>When set to yes, footnotes that are referenced multiple times throughout a
                  publication are cloned and placed at the bottom of the page for each
                  occurrence.</li>
                <li>When set to no (default value), only the first footnote reference is placed at
                  the bottom of the page and subsequent references point back to the original
                  footnote.</li>
              </ul></entry>
          </row>
          <row id="row_nbv_gym_bhc">
            <entry>args.css.params.pdf-split-mode</entry>
            <entry>You can use this parameter to generate additional PDFs alongside the main PDF
              publication. Allowed values:<ul id="ul_pq4_bym_bhc">
                <li><b>none</b> - Only the main PDF is generated.</li>
                <li><b>chapters</b> - All the chapters are generated beside the main PDF. The PDF
                  chapter file name is equal to the original chapter <xmlatt>id</xmlatt>.</li>
                <li><b>parts</b> - All the parts are generated beside the main PDF. The PDF part
                  file name is equal to the original part <xmlatt>id</xmlatt>.</li>
              </ul></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>args.css.param.numbering</entry>
            <entry>You can use this parameter to change the numbering of the first-level topics
              (chapters) and nested topics. Allowed values:<ul id="ul_h3f_y5r_rgb">
                <li id="li_rwp_cgk_54b"><b>shallow</b> - Only the topics from the first level are
                  numbered (chapters). This is the default.</li>
                <li id="li_swp_cgk_54b"><b>deep</b> - All the topics from the map are numbered
                  (nested topics up to level 3).</li>
                <li id="li_twp_cgk_54b"><b>deep-chapter-scope</b> - Similar to deep, but in addition, the page numbers,
                  figures, and table numbers are reset at the start of each first-level topic
                  (chapter). The table and figure titles (and the links to them) are prefixed with
                  the chapter numbers. The generic cross reference links contain both the
                  first-level topic (chapter) numbers and the page numbers to avoid ambiguity. This
                  parameter value is only available for the <b>DITA Map PDF - based on HTML5 &amp;
                    CSS</b> transformation scenario.</li>
                <li id="li_uwp_cgk_54b"><b>deep-chapter-scope-no-page-reset</b> - Similar to
                    <codeph>deep-chapter-scope</codeph>, but the page numbers do not reset at the
                  start of each first-level topic (chapter). The generic cross reference links
                  contain only the page number. This parameter value is only available for the
                      <b><ph keyref="pdf-html5-transformation"/></b> transformation scenario.</li>
              </ul><p id="p_vwp_cgk_54b">For more details, see <xref href="dcpp_numbering_types.dita"/>.</p></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>args.css.param.numbering-sections</entry>
            <entry>Controls whether or not the sections are included in the table of contents. When
              set to <b>yes</b> (sections are included), they are numbered according the numbering
              scheme set by the <codeph>args.css.param.numbering</codeph> parameter.</entry>
          </row>
					<row>
						<entry>args.css.param.show-onpage-lbl</entry>
						<entry>Controls whether or not the links will have an <codeph>on page NN</codeph> label after
              them. This parameter has different defaults, depending on the transformation type. For
              map transformations (<codeph>pdf-css-html5</codeph> trans type), the default is
                <b>yes</b>. For topic transformations (<codeph>pdf-css-html5-single-topic</codeph>
              trans type), the default is <b>no</b>.</entry>
					</row>
          <row>
            <entry>args.css.param.show-profiling-attributes</entry>
            <entry>
              <p>Controls whether or not the profiling attributes are displayed in the output.</p>
              <p>Allowed values:<ul id="ul_vlp_4pq_5sb">
                  <li><b>yes</b></li>
                  <li><b>no</b> (default)</li>
                </ul></p>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>args.css.param.title.layout</entry>
            <entry>Changes the structure of the title element. In the output, the title area
              consists of two parts: one is the number of the chapter (and optionally, the sections
              number), and one is the title text. This parameter allows a switch between normal text
              flow (in-line flow) and a table layout where the number is placed in one cell and the
              text in the other (to avoid wrapping text under the chapter number).<ul
                id="ul_bvp_spl_dkb">
                <li id="li_wwp_cgk_54b"><b>normal</b>
                </li>
                <li id="li_xwp_cgk_54b"><b>table</b> (avoid wrapping text under counter)</li>
              </ul></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>args.draft</entry>
            <entry>
              <p id="p_ywp_cgk_54b">Specifies whether or not the content of <xmlelement>draft-comment</xmlelement> and
                  <xmlelement>required-cleanup</xmlelement> elements is included in the output.</p>
              <p id="p_zwp_cgk_54b">Allowed values:<ul id="ul_mdt_zsy_3hb">
                  <li id="li_axp_cgk_54b"><b>no</b> (default) - No draft information is shown in the output.</li>
                  <li id="li_bxp_cgk_54b"><b>yes</b> - The draft information is shown in the output.</li>
                </ul></p>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>args.figurelink.style</entry>
            <entry>
              <p id="p_cxp_cgk_54b">Specifies how cross references to figures are styled in output. Allowed values:<ul
                  id="ul_yll_wsy_3hb">
                  <li id="li_dxp_cgk_54b"><b>NUMBER</b> - Only the number of the figures are shown
                    in links.</li>
                  <li id="li_exp_cgk_54b"><b>TITLE</b> - Only the title of the figures are shown in
                    links.</li>
                  <li id="li_fxp_cgk_54b"><b>NUMTITLE</b> (default) - Both the title and number of
                    the figures are shown in links.</li>
                </ul></p>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>args.gen.task.lbl</entry>
            <entry>
              <p id="p_gxp_cgk_54b">Specifies whether or not to generate headings for sections within task topics.
                Allowed values: <b>YES</b> or <b>NO</b> (default). When set to <b>YES</b>, headings
                such as "About this task", "Before you begin", "Procedure", or "What to do next",
                are shown in the task contents.</p>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>args.hyph.dir</entry>
            <entry>Specifies the directory that contains custom hyphenation dictionaries. Fore more
              details see: <xref href="dcpp_hyphenation.dita"/>.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>args.input</entry>
            <entry>Specifies the main DITA map file for your documentation project.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>args.keep.output.debug.files</entry>
            <entry>Specifies whether or not the debug files generated during the transformation
              should be kept in the output folder. Allowed values: <b>YES</b> (default) or
              <b>NO</b>.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>args.output.base</entry>
            <entry>Specifies the name of the output file without a file extension. By default, the
              name of the PDF file is derived from the name of the DITA map file. This parameter
              allows you to override it.<p>A common use-cases is to use the ditamap title instead of
                the ditamap filename, the parameter value then become
                  <codeph>${xpath_eval(normalize-space(string-join(/*[contains(@class,
                  'map/map')]/*[contains(@class, 'topic/title')]//text())))}</codeph>.<note
                  id="note_akd_ynd_l1c">To replace spaces by a custom separator the query should
                  call the <codeph>replace()</codeph> function:
                    <codeph>${xpath_eval(replace(normalize-space(string-join(/*[contains(@class,
                    'map/map')]/*[contains(@class, 'topic/title')]//text())), '\s',
                  '_'))}</codeph>.</note></p></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>args.rellinks.group.mode</entry>
            <entry>Specifies the related links grouping mode. All links can be grouped into a single
              "Related Information" group or links grouped by their target type (topic, task, or
              concept). Allowed values: <b>single-group</b> (default) or <b>group-by-type</b>. Fore
              more details see: <xref href="dcpp_how_to_group_related_links_by_type.dita"/>.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>args.tablelink.style</entry>
            <entry>
              <p id="p_hxp_cgk_54b">Specifies how cross references to tables are styled in output. Allowed values:<ul id="ul_ixp_cgk_54b">
                  <li id="li_jxp_cgk_54b"><b>NUMBER</b> - Only the number of the tables are shown in
                    links.</li>
                  <li id="li_kxp_cgk_54b"><b>TITLE</b> - Only the title of the tables are shown in
                    links.</li>
                  <li id="li_lxp_cgk_54b"><b>NUMTITLE</b> (default) - Both the title and number of
                    the tables are shown in links.</li>
                </ul></p>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>clean.temp</entry>
            <entry>Specifies whether or not the DITA-OT deletes the files in the temporary directory
              after it finishes a build. Allowed values: <b>yes</b> (default) or <b>no</b>.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>chemistry.log.file</entry>
            <entry>Specifies the path to the <filepath>logback.xml</filepath> configuration file
              used by Chemistry. For more details, see: <xref href="dcpp_console_logging.dita"
              />.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>chemistry.merge.after</entry>
            <entry>Specifies a list of PDF URLs to be added at the end of the generated PDF. The
              files must have URL syntax and be separated using semicolons.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>chemistry.merge.before</entry>
            <entry>Specifies a list of PDF URLs to be added in front of the generated PDF. The files
              must have URL syntax and be separated using semicolons.</entry>
          </row>
					<row>
						<entry>chemistry.security.policy</entry>
						<entry>Specifies a Java policy file that applies to the Chemistry process. A template can be
              found here:
                <filepath>plugins/com.oxygenxml.pdf.css/lib/oxygen-pdf-chemistry/config/chemistry.policy</filepath>.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>chemistry.security.resources.dir</entry>
						<entry>Path to an additional folder that Chemistry will use to read its resources (CSS,
              images). The process already has read access to the input map folder, the publishing
              templates folder, and the OPE install folder. This optional parameter should only be
              used when the <codeph>chemistry.security.policy</codeph> parameter is set.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>chemistry.security.resources.host</entry>
						<entry>The host, specified as <codeph>name:port</codeph>, that Chemistry will use to get
              resources (e.g. CSS files, images, fonts). This optional parameter should only be used
              when the <codeph>chemistry.security.policy</codeph> parameter is set.</entry>
					</row>
          <row>
            <entry>chemistry.security.workspace</entry>
            <entry>Specifies a directory where the temporary files and font cache created by the
              Chemistry process need to be stored. This becomes required when the
                <codeph>chemistry.security.policy</codeph> is specified.</entry>
          </row>
          <row id="row_tfy_ydx_hdc">
            <entry>chemistry.sign.keystore</entry>
            <entry>Specifies the path to the keystore file used by Chemistry to sign the PDF. This
              parameter must be set if you want to sign your PDF.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>chemistry.sign.location</entry>
            <entry>Specifies the location of the person/company who certified the PDF.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>chemistry.sign.name</entry>
            <entry>Specifies the name of the person/company who certified the PDF.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>chemistry.sign.password</entry>
            <entry>Specifies the export password of the keystore used to sign the PDF. Mandatory if
              the keystore has been exported with a password.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>chemistry.sign.reason</entry>
            <entry>Specifies the reason for certifying the PDF.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>css.processor.path.antenna-house</entry>
            <entry>Path to the Antenna House executable file that needs to be run to generate the
              PDF (for example, <filepath>C:\path\to\AHFCmd.exe</filepath> on Windows).</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>css.processor.path.chemistry</entry>
            <entry>Path to the <b>Oxygen PDF Chemistry</b> executable file that needs to be run to
              generate the PDF (for example, <filepath>C:\path\to\chemistry.bat</filepath> on
              Windows). If this parameter is not set, the plugin will use the system's PATH
              environment variable to locate and start <b>Oxygen PDF Chemistry</b>.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>css.processor.path.prince</entry>
            <entry>Path to the Prince executable file that needs to be run to generate the PDF (for
              example, <filepath>C:\path\to\prince.exe</filepath> on Windows).</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>css.processor.type</entry>
            <entry>Specifies the processor to use for the transformation. Allowed values:
                <b>chemistry</b> (default), <b>antenna-house</b>, or <b>prince</b>. </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>default.language</entry>
            <entry>Specifies the default language for source documents. Examples: <b>fr</b>,
                <b>de</b>, <b>zh</b>, etc. Depending on the transformation type, the actual number
              of supported languages can vary, see: <xref
                href="dcpp_localization___transformation_based_on_html5___css.dita"/>.</entry>
          </row>
					<row>
						<entry>drop.block.margins.at.page.boundary</entry>
						<entry>Specifies that the top and bottom margins associated with a block element should be
              discarded when the block is at the top or bottom of the page. Allowed values:
                <b>YES</b> (default) or <b>NO</b>.</entry>
					</row>
          <row>
            <entry>editlink.ditamap.edit.url</entry>
            <entry>Use this parameter to add an <i>Edit</i> link next to the topic title in the
              WebHelp output. When a user clicks the link, the topic is opened in <b>Oxygen XML Web
                Author</b> or <b>Content Fusion</b> where they can make changes that can be saved to
              a file server. The value should be set as the edit URL of the <term>main DITA
                map</term> used for publishing your output. The easiest way to obtain the URL is to
              open the map in Web Author or Content Fusion and copy the URL from the browser's
              address bar.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>editlink.additional.query.parameters</entry>
            <entry>You can use this optional parameter to add additional parameters to be appended
              to each generated edit link. Each parameter must start with <i>&amp;</i> (for example:
                <i>&amp;tags-mode=no-tags</i>).</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>editlink.remote.ditamap.url (deprecated)</entry>
            <entry>Use this parameter in conjunction with <codeph>editlink.web.author.url</codeph>
              to add an <i>Edit</i> link next to the topic title in the PDF output. When a user
              clicks the link, the topic is opened in <b>Oxygen XML Web Author</b> where they can
              make changes that can be saved to a file server. The value should be set as the custom
              URL of the <term>main DITA map</term>. For example, a GitHub custom URL might look
              like this:
                <filepath>https://getFileContent/oxygenxml/userguide/master/UserGuide.ditamap</filepath>.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>editlink.web.author.url (deprecated)</entry>
            <entry>This parameter needs to be used in conjunction with
                <codeph>editlink.remote.ditamap.url</codeph> to add an <i>Edit</i> link next to the
              topic title in the PDF output. When a user clicks the link, the topic is opened in
                <b>Oxygen XML Web Author</b> where they can make changes that can be saved to a file
              server. The value should be set as the URL of the Web Author installation. For
              example:
              <filepath>https://www.oxygenxml.com/oxygen-xml-web-author/</filepath>.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>enable.chunk.processing</entry>
            <entry>Enables the processing of the <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute. By default, this
              stage is skipped but it needs to be enabled, for example, if both the
                <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt> attributes are present on a
                <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>. Accepted values: <b>true</b> or
              <b>false</b>.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>enable.latin.glyph.substitutions</entry>
            <entry>When set to <b>yes</b> (default), glyph substitution is enabled (if the
              particular font supports it). This applies to Latin-based scripts only (the
              substitutions are always enabled in other types of scripts). If you encounter problems
              rendering or copying accented glyphs (e.g. <term>umlauts</term> or other
                <term>diacritics</term>), it might be helpful to set this parameter to <b>no</b> to
              disable the font glyph substitutions. Another example of a case when you might need to
              disable the substitutions is a situation where an accented character cannot be mapped
              to a compound glyph, resulting in the glyph not being rendered in the PDF output.<note
                type="other" othertype="Warnings" id="note_mxp_cgk_54b">
                <ul id="ul_y22_1d5_znb">
                  <li id="li_nxp_cgk_54b">Disabling substitutions also disables Latin
                    ligatures.</li>
                  <li id="li_oxp_cgk_54b">Disabling substitutions is not recommended unless
                    absolutely necessary. It is better practice to use another font if you can find
                    one that does not have the rendering issues.</li>
                </ul>
              </note></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>expand.xpath.in.svg.templates</entry>
            <entry>Expands XPath expressions (whose format is <codeph>${expression}</codeph>)
              contained in SVG templates. Allowed values: <b>yes</b> (default) or <b>no</b>.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>figure.title.placement</entry>
            <entry>Controls the title placement of the figures, relative to the image. Possible
              values include <b>top</b> (default) and <b>bottom</b>. </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>filter.unused.glossentries</entry>
            <entry>When set to <b>no</b> (default), all glossary entries are displayed in the
              glossary. If set to <b>yes</b>, only referenced entries are displayed.</entry>
          </row>
          <row product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">
            <entry>fix.external.refs.com.oxygenxml</entry>
            <entry>
              <p id="p_pxp_cgk_54b">The DITA Open Toolkit usually has problems processing references
                that point to locations outside of the processed DITA map directory. This parameter
                is used to specify whether or not the application should try to fix such references
                in a temporary files folder before the DITA Open Toolkit is invoked on the fixed
                references. The fix has no impact on your edited DITA content. Allowed values:
                  <b>true</b> or <b>false</b> (default).</p>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry id="hide-toc">hide.frontpage.toc.index.glossary</entry>
            <entry>When set to <b>yes</b>, the generated structures (table of contents, index list,
              front page, etc.) are removed from the output. The default is <b>no</b>.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>image.resolution</entry>
            <entry>You can use this parameter to set the default resolution used by images. It works
              mainly on <i>vector</i> images since <i>raster</i> images have their resolution
              defined in their metadata. The default is <b>96</b> (dpi). For more information, see
                <xref href="dcpp_how_to_change_image_resolution.dita">how to change images
                resolution</xref>.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>pdf.accessibility</entry>
            <entry>When set to <b>yes</b>, the PDF output is generated in compliance with the
              PDF/Universal Accessibility standard (also known as ISO 14289). The default is
                <b>no</b>.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>pdf.archiving.mode</entry>
            <entry>
              <p>Specifies the archiving mode. The PDF output will be generated in compliance with
                the PDF/A standard.</p>
              <p>Allowed values (not set by default):<ul id="ul_ofv_h1r_z5b">
                  <li><b>PDF/A-1a</b></li>
                  <li><b>PDF/A-1b</b></li>
                  <li><b>PDF/A-2a</b></li>
                  <li><b>PDF/A-2b</b></li>
                  <li><b>PDF/A-2u</b></li>
                  <li><b>PDF/A-3a</b></li>
                  <li><b>PDF/A-3b</b></li>
                  <li><b>PDF/A-3u</b></li>
                </ul></p>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>pdf.compress</entry>
            <entry>When set to <b>yes</b>, the PDF output is compressed. This may increase
              processing time. The default is <b>no</b>.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry id="pdf-version">pdf.version</entry>
            <entry>Use this parameter to specify the version of the produced PDF. It has no impact
              on the set of PDF features used by the engine, but may be used to signal a
              compatibility level to the PDF readers. The default is <b>1.5</b>.</entry>
          </row>
          <row id="row_ybq_dmw_5qb">
            <entry>pdf.security.restrict.printhq</entry>
            <entry>Restricts high quality printing. Used for protecting the PDF Document. The
              restriction is off by default. Accepted values: <b>yes</b> or <b>no</b>.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>pdf.security.restrict.assembledoc</entry>
            <entry>Restricts assembling document (e.g. adding pages). Used for protecting the PDF
              Document. The restriction is off by default. Accepted values: <b>yes</b> or
              <b>no</b>.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>pdf.security.restrict.accesscontent</entry>
            <entry>Restricts extracting text and graphics. Used for protecting the PDF Document. The
              restriction is off by default. Accepted values: <b>yes</b> or <b>no</b>.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>pdf.security.restrict.fillinforms</entry>
            <entry>Restricts filling in existing interactive forms. Used for protecting the PDF
              Document. The restriction is off by default. Accepted values: <b>yes</b> or
              <b>no</b>.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>pdf.security.restrict.annotations</entry>
            <entry>Restricts filling in existing interactive forms. Used for protecting the PDF
              Document. The restriction is off by default. Accepted values: <b>yes</b> or
              <b>no</b>.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>pdf.security.restrict.print</entry>
            <entry>Restricts printing. Used for protecting the PDF Document. The restriction is off
              by default. Accepted values: <b>yes</b> or <b>no</b>.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>pdf.security.restrict.copy</entry>
            <entry>Restricts copying content. Used for protecting the PDF Document. The restriction
              is off by default. Accepted values: <b>yes</b> or <b>no</b>.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>pdf.security.restrict.edit</entry>
            <entry>Restricts copying content. Used for protecting the PDF Document. The restriction
              is off by default. Accepted values: <b>yes</b> or <b>no</b>.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>pdf.security.user.password</entry>
            <entry>User password. The document can be opened using this password. When the owner
              password parameter is not specified, the user password gives full rights to the people
              using it. When the owner password parameter is specified, the people can open the
              document using the user password but restrictions will apply. Missing by
              default.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>pdf.security.owner.password</entry>
            <entry>Owner password. There are no restrictions for people using this password.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>pdf.security.encrypt.metadata</entry>
            <entry>Encrypts the metadata. By default active when other security parameters are set.
              Accepted values: <b>yes</b> or <b>no</b>.</entry>
          </row>
          
          <row>
            <entry>show.changes.and.comments</entry>
            <entry>
              <p id="p_qxp_cgk_54b">When set to <b>yes</b>, the user comments, colored highlights and tracked changes
                are shown in the output.</p>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>show.changes.and.comments.as.changebars</entry>
            <entry>
              <p id="p_rxp_cgk_54b">When set to <b>yes</b> (default) and the <codeph>show.changes.and.comments</codeph>
                parameter is also set to <b>yes</b>, the user comments and tracked changes are shown
                as change bars in the PDF output. This parameter can be used in conjunction with the
                  <codeph>show.changes.and.comments.as.pdf.sticky.notes</codeph> parameter to choose
                whether the change bars are displayed in footnotes or sticky notes. You can override
                this from your <xref href="dcpp_the_customization_css.dita">customization
                CSS</xref>.</p>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>show.changes.and.comments.as.pdf.sticky.notes</entry>
            <entry>When set to <b>yes</b> (default) and the
                <codeph>show.changes.and.comments</codeph> parameter is also set to <b>yes</b>, the
              user comments and tracked changes are shown in the PDF output as sticky note
              annotations. When set to <b>no</b>, the comments and tracked changes are left in the
              document model and are styled by the default CSS rules as footnotes. You can override
              this from your <xref href="dcpp_the_customization_css.dita">customization
              CSS</xref>.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry id="show-changed-text-content"
              >show.changed.text.in.pdf.sticky.notes.content</entry>
            <entry>When set to <b>yes</b> (default) and both the
                <codeph>show.changes.and.comments</codeph> and
                <codeph>show.changes.and.comments.as.pdf.sticky.notes</codeph> parameters are also
              set to <b>yes</b>, the inserted and deleted text is shown in the sticky note
              annotations. When set to <b>no</b>, only the <i>inserted</i> and <i>deleted</i> labels
              are shown in the annotations (this is useful for search scope).</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>show.image.map.area.numbers</entry>
            <entry>When set to <b>yes</b>, a counter for each area from the image map is displayed
              over the image, near the defined shape. The default is <b>no</b>.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>show.image.map.area.shapes</entry>
            <entry>When set to <b>yes</b>, each of the image map area shapes is displayed with a
              translucent fill over the image. You can use this to debug your image maps. The
              default is <b>no</b>. </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>show.media.as.link</entry>
            <entry>When set to <b>yes</b>, media objects will not appear and an external link is
              generated for each one instead.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>sort.and.group.glossentries</entry>
            <entry>When set to <b>no</b> (default), glossary entries are sorted based upon the
              document order. If set to <b>yes</b>, they are sorted alphabetically and grouped by
              their first letter.<note id="note_lxq_2wy_dfc" type="warning">This only works for
                glossary entries inside the <xmlelement>glossgroup</xmlelement> element or children
                of the <xmlelement>glossarylist</xmlelement> element.</note></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>store-type</entry>
            <entry>Setting this parameter to <b>memory</b> will increase the processing speed and
              thus, could help decrease the publishing time.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>table.title.placement</entry>
            <entry>Controls the placement of the title for tables. Possible values include
                <b>top</b> (default) and <b>bottom</b>. </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>table.title.repeat</entry>
            <entry>Specifies whether or not a table caption should repeat on other pages when the
              table spans onto multiple pages. The caption is not repeated for tables nested in
              lists or other tables. Allowed values are <b>yes</b> (default) or <b>no</b>.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>use.css.for.embedded.svg</entry>
            <entry>When set to <b>yes</b> (default), the CSS files specified in the publishing
              template or by the <codeph>args.css</codeph> parameter are also applied on embedded
              SVG elements. Allowed values are <b>yes</b> and <b>no</b>.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>use.navtitles.in.all.links</entry>
            <entry>Specifies whether a <xmlelement>navtitle</xmlelement> defined in a topic or a
              topic reference should be used as the display name for all links or only in the table
              of contents. Allowed values are <b>yes</b> and <b>no</b> (default).</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>parallel</entry>
            <entry>Specifies whether or not certain pre-processing tasks should be run in parallel.
              Setting this parameter to <b>true</b> may add a small increase to the publishing
              speed. Allowed values are: <b>true</b> and <b>false</b> (default).</entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
		<div>The following parameters can be used to specify a publishing template: <table frame="all"
				rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_pbp_lxv_sjb">
				<tgroup cols="2">
					<colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
					<colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="2.13*"/>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry>pdf.publishing.template</entry>
							<entry>Specifies the path to the folder containing the custom PDF template.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>pdf.publishing.template.descriptor</entry>
							<entry>Specifies the name of the descriptor file to be loaded from the PDF template folder or
                package. If not specified, the first encountered descriptor file is loaded.</entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
			</table></div>
    <div>The following parameter is available on all DITA transformations when using the <b>Oxygen
        Publishing Engine</b>: <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_gcc_ggx_tkb">
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="2.13*"/>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>args.disable.security.checks</entry>
              <entry>Specifies whether or not to load external entities that are not solved through
                catalogs. For security reasons, the default is <b>no</b>.<p id="p_sxp_cgk_54b">Allowed values:</p><p id="p_txp_cgk_54b">
                  <ul id="ul_kyj_qgx_tkb">
                    <li id="li_uxp_cgk_54b"><b>yes</b></li>
                    <li id="li_vxp_cgk_54b"><b>no</b> (default)</li>
                  </ul>
                </p></entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table></div>
    <div>The following parameters are only available for the <b>DITA PDF - based on HTML5 &amp;
        CSS</b> single DITA topic transformation scenario
        (<codeph>pdf-css-html5-single-topic</codeph> trans type):<table frame="all" rowsep="1"
        colsep="1" id="table_fc2_qbd_b2b">
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="2.13*"/>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>args.root.map</entry>
              <entry>Specifies the path of the root map file used to expand the key references in
                the published topic.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>args.enable.root.map.key.processing</entry>
              <entry>
                <p id="p_wxp_cgk_54b">Indicates whether or not the keys should be processed using the root map
                  parameter.</p>
                <p id="p_xxp_cgk_54b">Allowed values:</p>
                <ul id="ul_fhm_gxv_sjb">
                  <li id="li_yxp_cgk_54b"><b>auto</b> (default)</li>
                  <li id="li_zxp_cgk_54b"><b>yes</b></li>
                  <li id="li_ayp_cgk_54b"><b>no</b></li>
                </ul>
              </entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table></div>
  </body>
</topic>
