<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="dcpp_how_to_change_header_images_at_each_chapter">
  <title>How to Change Header Images for Each Chapter</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
            ><ph keyref="html5-transformation"/>
          <indexterm>Header<indexterm>Change header at each
          chapter</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm product="pdf-css">Header<indexterm>Change header at each
          chapter</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>It is possible to dynamically change an image in the header depending on the chapter. For
      this, you need to define an image reference in the metadata section of each chapter. One way
      is to specify it in the DITA map by using the <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> element for
      the <xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement> topic reference:</p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">...
 &lt;chapter href="topics/installing.dita">
    &lt;topicmeta>
      &lt;data name="header-image" value="img/installing.png"/>
    &lt;/topicmeta>
    ...</codeblock>
    <p>In the above example, there is set of key value pairs with the name
        <codeph>header-image</codeph>. The <codeph>img/installing.png</codeph> is an image reference
      relative to the DITA map URI. This information is automatically copied into the content in the
        <xref href="dcpp_debugging_the_css.dita#dcpp_debugging_the_css/merged_map_file">merged map
        file</xref>, like this:</p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-css">&lt;topic is-chapter="true" ... >
    &lt;title class="- topic/title ">Installing&lt;/title>
    &lt;shortdesc class="- topic/shortdesc ">You install components to make them available for your
      solution.&lt;/shortdesc>
    &lt;prolog class="- topic/prolog ">
      ...
      &lt;data class="- topic/data " name="header-image" value="img/installing.png"/>
      ...</codeblock>
    <p>This information can be picked up from CSS:</p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-css">
/* Define the string set variable that contains an URL */
*[class ~= "topic/topic"] *[class ~= "topic/data"][name="header-image"] {
  string-set: imgst oxy_url(oxy_xpath('/*/@xtrf'), attr(value));
}

/* Using the value='none' stops applying the image. */
*[class ~= "topic/topic"] *[class ~= "topic/data"][name="header-image"][value="none"] {
  string-set: imgst "";
}

/* Use the string set variable in one of the page margin boxes. */
@page chapter {  
  @top-left-corner {
    content: string(imgst);
    font-size:0; /* remove the font ascent and descent */
  }
}</codeblock>
    <p><b>Details</b>: The <xmlatt>value</xmlatt> attribute is used to build a URL relative to the
      URI of the DITA map. To determine the base URI of the DITA map, the <xmlatt>xtrf</xmlatt>
      attribute was used from the root element of the merged map document, extracted using the
        <codeph>oxy_xpath</codeph> function. </p>
    <note type="other" othertype="Notes">
      <ul>
        <li>The image is always aligned vertically to the middle of available space from the page
          margin box.</li>
        <li>Make sure you use an image of the correct size. For example, if you want to place the
          image in the top-left corner of the page, assuming the top and left page margins are 1 in,
          then make sure the image is a square having a size of 1 in.</li>
        <li>The image is applied to all pages that follow the data element, until another data
          element changes
            it:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">...
 &lt;chapter href="topics/installing.dita">
    &lt;topicmeta>
      &lt;data name="header-image" value="img/installing.png"/>
    &lt;/topicmeta>
 &lt;/chapter>
 &lt;chapter href="..."> &lt;!-- Uses the same installing.png image -->
 &lt;chapter href="..."> &lt;!-- Uses the same installing.png image -->
 &lt;chapter href="..."> &lt;!-- Uses the same installing.png image -->
 &lt;chapter href="topics/change.dita">
    &lt;topicmeta>
      &lt;data name="header-image" value="img/change.png"/>
    &lt;/topicmeta>
 &lt;/chapter>
 &lt;chapter href="..."> &lt;!-- Uses the same change.png image -->
 &lt;chapter href="..."> &lt;!-- Uses the same change.png image -->
 &lt;chapter href="..."> &lt;!-- Uses the same change.png image -->
</codeblock><p>To
            clear the image, use the <codeph>none</codeph>
            value:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">...
      &lt;data name="header-image" value="none"/>
 ...</codeblock></p></li>
      </ul>
    </note>
  </body>
</topic>
