<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="dcpp_how_to_change_the_cover_image">
  <title>How to Add a Background Image for the Cover </title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
            ><ph keyref="html5-transformation"/>
          <indexterm>Cover page<indexterm>Background image</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm product="pdf-css">Cover page<indexterm>Background image</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>The simplest way is to create an SVG image as large as the entire physical page and set it as
      the background for the <i>front-page</i>. This makes it very easy to accomplish a good
      positioning of the graphical elements or artwork. In the foreground, you can place text
      fragments using a series of <codeph>:after</codeph> pseudo elements bound to the front page
      title. </p>
    <p>To set the size to an SVG image you should specify the <xmlatt>witdth</xmlatt> and
        <xmlatt>height</xmlatt> attributes on the <xmlelement>svg</xmlelement> root element, using
      specified unit values: in, cm, etc. This should be enough only if all the coordinates from
      your drawing have unit identifiers.</p>
    <p> If in your drawing you are using unit-less coordinates like the
      following:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;polygon points="17.78 826.21 577.51 ....</codeblock>then
      make sure you also specify a <xmlatt>viewBox</xmlatt> attribute on the
        <xmlelement>svg</xmlelement> root element that defines the abstract rectangle containing the
      drawing:</p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="8.5in" height="11in" viewBox="0 0 600 850"></codeblock>
    <p>Consider the following SVG document, see that it has the <xmlatt>width</xmlatt>,
        <xmlatt>height</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>viewBox</xmlatt> attributes. The width and height have a
      physical units, they are in inches. The view box is and rectangle coordinates are unit-less. </p>
    <p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;!DOCTYPE svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" 
       "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd">
&lt;svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="8.5in" height="11in" viewBox="0 0 110 110">
  &lt;desc>A gradient as big as a page.&lt;/desc>
  &lt;defs>
    &lt;linearGradient id="lc"
      x1="0%" y1="0%"
      x2="0%" y2="100%"
      spreadMethod="pad">
      &lt;stop offset="0%"   stop-color="#00DD00" stop-opacity="1"/>
      &lt;stop offset="100%" stop-color="#00AA00" stop-opacity="1"/>
    &lt;/linearGradient>
  &lt;/defs>    
  &lt;rect x="5" y="5" width="100" height="100" rx="10" ry="10"
    style="fill:url(#lc);
    stroke: #005000;
    stroke-width: 3;"/>
  &lt;text x="33%" y="50%"  color="#FFFFAA"> Sample &lt;/text>
&lt;/svg></codeblock>
    </p>
    <p>This example shows a gradient. It is as large as a US-LETTER page and can be used in a
      publication using this page size.</p>
    <note conkeyref="reusables-dcpp/note_pqy_hdn_vcb"/>
    <p>In your <xref href="dcpp_the_customization_css.dita">customization CSS</xref>, add the
      following:</p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-css">@page front-page {
    background-image: url("us-letter.svg");
    background-position:center;
}</codeblock>
    <p>For smaller artworks, you can use <codeph>background-position</codeph> with percentage values
      to position and center the artwork (for example, a company logo):</p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-css">@page front-page {
    background-image:url("company-logo.svg");
    background-position:50% 5%; /* The first is the alignement on the X axis, the second on the Y axis.*/
    background-repeat:no-repeat; 
}</codeblock>
    <note>The text from the SVG or PDF background images are searchable in the PDF reader.</note>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link format="html"
        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-chemistry/topics/ch_graphics.html#ch_graphics"
        scope="external">
        <linktext>Oxygen PDF Chemistry: Graphics</linktext>
      </link>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
