<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="debug-plugin-intelliJ">
  <title>Debugging a Plugin Using IntelliJ IDEA</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Oxygen SDK<indexterm>Debugging a
            plugin<indexterm>IntelliJ</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Plugins<indexterm>Debugging<indexterm>IntelliJ</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>To use <term>IntelliJ IDEA</term> to debug problems in the code of a <xref
        keyref="glossentry_plugin"><term>plugin</term></xref> without having to re-bundle the
      plugin's Java classes in a <xref keyref="glossentry_jar"><term>JAR</term></xref> library,
      follow these steps:<ol id="ol_ops_m3p_hj">
        <li><xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/xml_editor/download_oxygenxml_editor.html"
            format="html" scope="external">Download</xref> and install <ph keyref="product"/>.</li>
        <li>Set up the <i>Oxygen SDK</i> following <xref
            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/oxygen_sdk/download.html" format="html" scope="external"
            >this set of instructions</xref>.</li>
        <li>Create a Java Project (for example, <filepath>MyPluginProject</filepath>) from one of
          the sample plugins (for example, the Workspace Access plugin). </li>
        <li>In the <filepath>MyPluginProject</filepath> folder, create a folder called
            <filepath>myPlugin</filepath>. In this new folder, copy the
            <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath> file from the sample plugin. Modify the added
            <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath> to add a library reference to the directory where
          IntelliJ IDEA copies the compiled output. To find out where this directory is located, go
          to <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>File</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol> Project Structure</uicontrol>
          </menucascade>. Then select the <b>Modules</b> category and inspect the value of the
            <uicontrol>Output path</uicontrol> text box from the <b>Path</b> tab.<p><b>Example:</b>
            If the output path is
              <filepath>C:/Users/myUser/Documents/MyPluginProject/target/classes</filepath>, then in
            the <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath>, you need to add the following library reference in
            the <i>runtime</i> element:
            <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;library name="../target/classes"/></codeblock></p></li>
        <li>Copy the <filepath>plugin.dtd</filepath> from the <filepath><term
              conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"/>/plugins</filepath> folder in the
          root <filepath>MyPluginProject</filepath> folder.</li>
        <li>In the <filepath>MyPluginProject</filepath> dependences (<menucascade>
            <uicontrol>File</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol> Project Structure</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Modules</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Dependences</uicontrol>
          </menucascade>), add external <term>JAR</term> references to all the <term>JAR</term>
          libraries in the <filepath><term conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
            />/lib</filepath> folder. Now your <filepath>MyPluginProject</filepath> should compile
          successfully.</li>
        <li>In IntelliJ IDEA, create a new <term>Java Application</term> configuration for debugging (<menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Run</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol> Edit Configurations...</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>+</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Application</uicontrol>
          </menucascade>). Set the <uicontrol>Main class</uicontrol> box to
            <codeph>ro.sync.exml.Oxygen</codeph> and add the following code snippet in the <b>VM
            options</b> input box, making sure that the path to the <filepath>plugins</filepath>
          directory is the correct
            one:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini">-Dcom.oxygenxml.app.descriptor=ro.sync.exml.EditorFrameDescriptor -Xmx1024m 
-XX:MaxPermSize=384m -Dcom.oxygenxml.editor.plugins.dir=D:\projects\MyPluginProject</codeblock><note
            product="author developer">If you need to configure the <term>plugin</term> for <ph
              keyref="product"/>, set the <codeph>com.oxygenxml.app.descriptor</codeph> to <codeph
              product="author">ro.sync.exml.AuthorFrameDescriptor</codeph><codeph
              product="developer">ro.sync.exml.DeveloperFrameDescriptor</codeph>.</note></li>
        <li product="developer editor"><xref
            href="using-breakpoints.dita#using-breakpoints/inserting_breakpoints">Add a
              <term>breakpoint</term></xref> in the source of one of your Java classes.</li>
        <li product="developer editor">Debug the created configuration. When the code reaches your
            <xref href="using-breakpoints.dita#using-breakpoints"><term>breakpoint</term></xref>,
          the IntelliJ IDEA debugging view should take over.</li>
      </ol></p>
  </body>
</topic>
