<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="defining-new-transformation-scenario">
  <title>Defining a New Transformation Scenario</title>
  <!--Proofed-->
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Transformation Scenario<indexterm>new transformation scenario<indexterm>configure
              transformation scenario</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>Defining a transformation scenario is the first step in the process of transforming a
      document. The following types of scenarios are available:</p>
    <ul>
      <li><xref href="xml-transformation-with-xslt.dita#xml-transformation-with-xslt"><b>XML
            Transformation with XSLT</b></xref> - Specifies the transformation parameters and
        location of an XSLT stylesheet that is applied to the edited XML document. This scenario is
        useful when you develop an XML document and the XSLT document is in its final form.</li>
      <li><xref href="xml-transformation-with-xquery.dita#xml-transformation-with-xquery"><b>XML
            Transformation with XQuery</b></xref> - Specifies the transform parameters and location
        of an XQuery file that is applied to the edited XML document.</li>
      <li><xref href="dita-ot-transformation.dita#dita-ot-transformation"><b>DITA-OT
            Transformation</b></xref> - Specifies the parameters for an Ant transformation that
        executes a DITA-OT build script. <ph keyref="product"/> comes with a built-in version of Ant
        and a built-in version of DITA-OT but different versions can be set in the scenario.</li>
      <li><xref href="ant-transformation.dita#ant-transformation"><b>ANT Transformation</b></xref> -
        Allows you to configure the options and parameters of an Ant build script.</li>
      <li><xref href="xslt-transformation.dita#xslt-transformation"><b>XSLT
          Transformation</b></xref> - Specifies the transformation parameters and location of an XML
        document to which the edited XSLT stylesheet is applied. This scenario is useful when you
        develop an XSLT document and the XML document is in its final form.</li>
      <li><xref href="xproc-transformation-scenario.dita#xproc-transformation-scenario"><b>XProc
            Transformation</b></xref> - Specified the transformation parameters and location of an
        XProc script.</li>
      <li><xref href="xquery-transformation.dita#xquery-transformation"><b>XQuery
          Transformation</b></xref> -Specifies the transformation parameters and location of an XML
        source to which the edited XQuery file is applied. When the XML source is a native XML
        database, the XML source field of the scenario is empty because the XML data is read with
        XQuery-specific functions, such as <apiname>document()</apiname>. When the XML source is a
        local XML file, the URL of the file is specified in the XML input field of the
        scenario.</li>
      <li><xref href="sql-transformation.dita#sql-transformation"><b>SQL Transformation</b></xref> -
        Specifies a database connection for the database server that runs the SQL file associated
        with the scenario. The data processed by the SQL script is located in the database.</li>
    </ul>
  </body>
</topic>
