<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="deploying-webhelp-responsive-feedback">
  <title><?oxy_comment_start author="steven_higgs" timestamp="20160418T135404+0300" comment="This and &quot;Deploying the WebHelp Classic with Feedback System&quot; topics are identical except for the name of the system. At some point, maybe we should just reference the same topic in both sections and use a generic name in the topic (such as &quot;feedback-enabled WebHelp system&quot;).

Also, we should have QA test this procedure to make sure it does work for WHR."?>Deploying
    the WebHelp Responsive with Feedback System<?oxy_comment_end?></title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>WebHelp Responsive with Feedback
          system<indexterm>Deploying</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>WebHelp Responsive with Feedback
          system<indexterm>Installing</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body id="installation">
    <section id="system-requirements">
      <title>System Requirements</title>
      <p>The <term>WebHelp Responsive with Feedback</term> system of <ph keyref="product"/> requires
        a standard server deployment. You can request this from your server admin and it needs the
        following system components:<ul id="ul_qtg_mnh_ws">
          <li>A Web server (such as <term>Apache Web Server</term>)</li>
          <li>A <term>MySQL</term> or <term>MariaDB</term> database server</li>
          <li>A database admin tool (such as <term>phpMyAdmin</term>)</li>
          <li>PHP Version 5.1.6 or later</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p><ph keyref="webhelp"/> system supports most of the recent versions of the following
        browsers: Chrome, Firefox, Internet Explorer, Safari, Opera.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="create-database-section">
      <title>Create WebHelp Responsive with Feedback Database</title>
      <p>The <term>WebHelp Responsive with Feedback</term> system needs a database to store user
        details and the actual feedback, and a user added to it with all privileges. After this is
        created, you should have the following information:<ul id="ul_f1m_3hk_vs">
          <li>Database name</li>
          <li>Username</li>
          <li>Password</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p>Exactly how you create the database and user depends on your web host and your particular
        needs. </p>
    </section>
    <example>
      <p>For example, the following procedure uses <term>phpMyAdmin</term> to create a MySQL
        database for the feedback system and a MySQL user with privileges for that database. The
        feedback system uses these credentials to connect to the database.</p>
      <p>Using <term>phpMyAdmin</term> to create a database: <ol id="ol_als_nkk_vs">
          <li>Access the <term>phpMyAdmin</term> instance running on your server.</li>
          <li>Click <i>Databases</i> (in the right frame) and then create a <i>database</i>. You can
            give it any name you want (for example <i>comments</i>).</li>
          <li>Create a user with connection privileges for this database. </li>
          <li>Under <i>localhost</i>, in the right frame, click <i>Privileges</i> and then at the
            bottom of the page click the <uicontrol>reload the privileges</uicontrol> link.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </example>
    <section id="deploying-webhelp">
      <title>Deploying the WebHelp Responsive with Feedback Output</title>
      <p>If you have a web server configured with PHP and MySQL, you can deploy the <term>WebHelp
          Responsive with Feedback</term> output by following these steps:<ol id="ol_jfm_3mk_vs">
          <li>Connect to your server using an FTP client.</li>
          <li>Locate the home directory (from now on, referred to as
              <varname>DOCUMENT_ROOT</varname>) of your server.</li>
          <li>Copy the transformation output folder into the <filepath>DOCUMENT_ROOT</filepath>
            folder.</li>
          <li>Rename it to something relevant (for example,
            <filepath>myProductWebHelp</filepath>).</li>
          <li>Open the output folder (for example,
              <filepath>http://[YOUR_SERVER]/myProductWebHelp/)</filepath>. You are redirected to
            the installation wizard. Proceed with the installation as follows:<ol id="ol_lgm_lnk_vs">
              <li>Verify that the prerequisites are met.</li>
              <li>Press <uicontrol>Start Installation</uicontrol>.</li>
              <li>Configure the <uicontrol>Deployment Settings</uicontrol> section. Default values
                are provided, but you should adjust them as needed.<note type="tip">You can change
                  some of the options later. The installation creates a
                    <filepath>config.php</filepath> file in
                    <filepath>[OXYGEN_WEBHELP_INSTALL_DIR]/feedback/resources/php/config/config.php</filepath>
                  where all your configuration options are stored.</note></li>
              <li>Configure the <uicontrol>MySql Database Connection Settings</uicontrol> section.
                Use the information (database name, username, password) from the <xref
                  href="#deploying-webhelp-responsive-feedback/create-database-section"
                  format="dita">Create WebHelp Responsive with Feedback Database section</xref> to
                fill-in the appropriate text boxes.<note type="warning" id="create-db-note">Checking
                  the <uicontrol>Create new database structure</uicontrol> option will overwrite any
                  existing data in the selected database, if it already exists. Therefore, it is
                  useful the first time you install the <term>WebHelp Responsive with
                    Feedback</term> system, but you do not want to select this option on subsequent
                  deployments.</note></li>
              <li>If you are using a domain (such as <term>OpenLDAP</term> or <term>Active
                  Directory</term>) to manage users in your organization, check the
                  <uicontrol>Enable LDAP Autehntication</uicontrol> option. This will allow you to
                configure the LDAP server, which will provide information and credentials for users
                who will access the WebHelp system. Also, this will allow you to choose which of the
                domain users will have administrator privileges.</li>
              <li>If the <uicontrol>Create new database structure</uicontrol> option is checked, the
                  <uicontrol>Create WebHelp Administrator Account</uicontrol> section becomes
                available. Here you can set the administrator account data. The administrator is
                able to moderate new posts and manage WebHelp users. <p>The same database can be
                  used to store comments for multiple <term>WebHelp Responsive with Feedback</term>
                  deployments. If a topic is available in multiple deployments and there are
                  comments associated with it, you can choose to display the comments in all
                  deployments that share the database. To do this, enable the <uicontrol>Display
                    comments from other products</uicontrol> option. In the <uicontrol>Display
                    comments from</uicontrol> section, a list with the deployments sharing the same
                  database is displayed. Select the deployments allowed to share common
                    feedback.<note>You can restrict the displayed comments of a product depending on
                    its version. If you have two products that use the same database and you
                    restrict one of them to display comments starting from a certain version, the
                    comments of the other product are also displayed from the specified version
                    onwards. </note></p></li>
              <li>Press <uicontrol>Next Step</uicontrol>.</li>
              <li>Remove the installation folder from your web server.<note type="important">When
                  you publish subsequent iterations of your <term>WebHelp Responsive with
                    Feedback</term> system, you will not upload the <filepath>/install</filepath>
                  folder in the output, as you only need it uploaded the first time you create the
                  installation. On subsequent uploads, you will just upload the other output
                  files.</note></li>
              <li>In your Web browser, go to your <term>WebHelp Responsive with Feedback</term>
                system main page.</li>
            </ol></li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="testing_your_webhelp_classic_with_feedback_system">
      <title>Testing Your WebHelp Responsive with Feedback System</title>
      <p>To test your system, create a user and post a comment. Check to see if the notification
        emails are delivered to your email inbox.<note>To read debug messages generated by the
            system:<ol id="ol_hyx_lpk_vs">
            <li>Enable <term>JavaScript</term> logging by doing one of the following:<ul
                id="ul_iyx_lpk_vs">
                <li>Open the <filepath>log.js</filepath> file, locate the <codeph>var log= new
                    Log(Level.NONE);</codeph> line, and change the logging level to:
                    <codeph>Level.INFO</codeph>, <codeph>Level.DEBUG</codeph>,
                    <codeph>Level.WARN</codeph>, or <codeph>Level.ERROR</codeph>.</li>
                <li>Append <codeph>?log=true</codeph> to the WebHelp URL.</li>
              </ul></li>
            <li>Inspect the PHP and Apache server log files.</li>
          </ol></note></p>
    </section>
    <section id="documentation_product_id_and_version">
      <title>Documentation Product ID and Version</title>
      <p>When you run a <uicontrol>WebHelp Responsive with Feedback</uicontrol> transformation
        scenario, by default you are prompted for a documentation product ID and version number.
        This is needed when multiple WebHelp systems are deployed on the same server. Think of your
        WebHelp output as a <term>product</term>. If you have three different WebHelp outputs, you
        have three different <term>products</term> (each with their own unique documentation product
        ID). This identifier is included in a configuration file so that comments are tied to a
        particular output (product ID and version number).<note>The <term>WebHelp Responsive with
            Feedback</term> installation includes a configuration option (<uicontrol>Display
            comments from other products</uicontrol>) that allows you to choose to have comments
          visible in other specified <term>products</term>.</note></p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="managing-webhelp-responsive-feedback.dita#managing-webhelp-responsive-feedback"/>
  </related-links>
</topic>
