<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="deploying-plugins-as-addons">
  <title>Deploying Plugins or Frameworks as Add-ons</title>
  <body>
    <p>To deploy a plugin or a framework as an <ph keyref="product"/> add-on:<ul>
        <li>Pack it as a <codeph>ZIP</codeph> file or a <abbreviated-form keyref="glossentry.jar"/>.
          Please note that you should pack the entire root directory not just it's contents;</li>
        <li>Digitally sign the package. Please note that you can perform this step only if you have
          created a <abbreviated-form keyref="glossentry.jar"/> at the previous step. You will need
          a certificate signed by a trusted authority. To sign the jar you can either use the
            <cmdname>jarsigner</cmdname> command line tool inside Oracle's Java Development Kit.
            (<filepath>'JDK_install_dir'/bin/jarsigner.exe</filepath>) or, if you are working with
            <abbreviated-form keyref="glossentry.ant"/>, you can use the <cmdname>signjar</cmdname>
          task (which is just a front for the <cmdname>jarsigner</cmdname> command line
            tool);<note>The benefit of having a signed add-on is that the user can verify the
            integrity of the add-on issuer. If you don't have such a certificate you can generate
            one yourself using the keytool command line tool. Please note that this approach is
            mostly recommended for tests since anyone can create a self signed
          certificate.</note></li>
        <li>Create a descriptor file. You can use a template that <ph keyref="product"/> provides.
          To use this template, go to <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>File</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol> New</uicontrol>
          </menucascade> and select the <uicontrol>Oxygen add-ons update site</uicontrol>
          template;</li>
        <li>Copy the <codeph>ZIP</codeph> file and the descriptor file to an HTTP server. The URL to
          this location serves as the <uicontrol>Update Site</uicontrol> URL. </li>
      </ul></p>
  </body>
</topic>
