<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="dg-author-op-InsertFragmentOperation-arguments">
  <title>Arguments of InsertFragmentOperation</title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_jn1_dgk_54b">
      <dl id="dl_kn1_dgk_54b">
        <dlentry id="dlentry_ln1_dgk_54b">
          <dt><i>fragment</i></dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_mn1_dgk_54b">This argument has a textual value. This value is parsed by <ph keyref="product"/> as
              it was already in the document at the cursor position. You can use entity references
              declared in the document and it is namespace aware. The fragment may have multiple
              roots.</p>
            <p id="p_nn1_dgk_54b">You can even use namespace prefixes that are not declared in the inserted fragment,
              if they are declared in the document where the insertion is done. For the sake of
              clarity, you should always prefix and declare namespaces in the inserted fragment!</p>
            <p id="p_on1_dgk_54b">If the fragment contains namespace declarations that are identical to those found in
              the document, the namespace declaration attributes will be removed from elements
              contained by the inserted fragment. </p>
            <p id="p_pn1_dgk_54b">There are two possible scenarios:<ul id="ol_a9cd91c4-d9d0-4c25-ae3f-df91171f25b1">
                <li id="li_qn1_dgk_54b">
                  <p id="p_rn1_dgk_54b"><u><b>Prefixes that are not bound explicitly</b></u></p>
                  <p id="p_sn1_dgk_54b">For instance, the
                    fragment:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_tn1_dgk_54b">&lt;x:item id="dty2"/&gt;
&amp;ent;
&lt;x:item id="dty3"/&gt;</codeblock></p>
                  <p id="p_un1_dgk_54b">Can be correctly inserted in the document: ('|' marks the insertion
                    point):<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_vn1_dgk_54b">&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?&gt;
&lt;!DOCTYPE x:root [
    &lt;!ENTITY ent "entity"&gt;
]&gt;

&lt;x:root xmlns:x="nsp"&gt; 
  |
&lt;/x:root&gt;</codeblock></p>
                  <p id="p_wn1_dgk_54b">Result:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_xn1_dgk_54b">&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?&gt;
&lt;!DOCTYPE x:root [
    &lt;!ENTITY ent "entity"&gt;
]&gt;
&lt;x:root xmlns:x="nsp"&gt;
    &lt;x:item id="dty2"/&gt;
    &amp;ent;
    &lt;x:item id="dty3"/&gt;
&lt;/x:root&gt;</codeblock></p>
                </li>
                <li id="li_yn1_dgk_54b">
                  <p id="p_zn1_dgk_54b"><u><b>Default namespaces</b></u></p>
                  <p id="p_a41_dgk_54b">If there is a default namespace declared in the document and the <xref
                      keyref="glossentry_document-fragment"><term>document fragment</term></xref>
                    does not declare a namespace, the elements from the fragment are considered to
                    be in <b>no namespace</b>. </p>
                  <p id="p_b41_dgk_54b">For instance, the
                    fragment:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_c41_dgk_54b">&lt;item id="dty2"/&gt;
&lt;item id="dty3"/&gt;</codeblock></p>
                  <p id="p_d41_dgk_54b">Inserted in the
                    document:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_e41_dgk_54b">&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?&gt;
&lt;root xmlns="nsp"&gt;
|
&lt;/root&gt;</codeblock></p>
                  <p id="p_f41_dgk_54b">Gives the result
                    document:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_g41_dgk_54b">&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?&gt;
&lt;root xmlns="nsp"&gt;
    &lt;item xmlns="" id="dty2"/&gt;
    &lt;item xmlns="" id="dty3"/&gt;
&lt;/root&gt;</codeblock></p>
                </li>
              </ul></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_h41_dgk_54b">
          <dt><i>insertLocation</i></dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_i41_dgk_54b">An XPath expression that is relative to the current node. It selects the reference
              node for the fragment insertion. When missing, the fragment will be inserted at the
              cursor position.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_j41_dgk_54b">
          <dt><i>insertPosition</i></dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_k41_dgk_54b">Specifies where the insertion is made relative to the reference node selected by the
                <i>insertLocation</i>. It can be one of the following constants:<ul id="ul_l41_dgk_54b">
                <li id="li_m41_dgk_54b"><b>Inside as first child</b> (default value) - The fragment is inserted as first
                  child of the reference node.</li>
                <li id="li_n41_dgk_54b"><b>Inside as last child</b> - The fragment is inserted as the last child of the
                  reference node.</li>
                <li id="li_o41_dgk_54b"><b>After</b> - The fragment is inserted after the reference node.</li>
                <li id="li_p41_dgk_54b"><b>Before</b> - The fragment is inserted before the reference node.</li>
              </ul></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_q41_dgk_54b">
          <dt><i>goToNextEditablePosition</i></dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_r41_dgk_54b">After inserting the fragment, the first editable position is detected and the cursor
              is placed at that location. It handles any in-place editors used to edit attributes.
              It will be ignored if the fragment specifies a cursor position using the <xref
                href="editor-variables.dita#editor-variables/edvar-caret"><b>${caret}</b> editor
                variable</xref>. The possible values of this action are <uicontrol>true</uicontrol>
              and <uicontrol>false</uicontrol>.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_s41_dgk_54b">
          <dt><i>schemaAware</i></dt>
          <dd><ph conkeyref="reusables-author-mode-customization/schema_aware_argument"/></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_t41_dgk_54b">
          <dt><i>insertEvenIfInvalid</i></dt>
          <dd>The possible values of this argument are <uicontrol>true</uicontrol> and
              <uicontrol>false</uicontrol>. If <uicontrol>true</uicontrol>, the content that would
            make the document invalid is accepted. If <uicontrol>false</uicontrol> and the insertion
            is not valid, the operation will not be executed and an error message will be displayed.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
