<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="dg-default-author-operations">
  <title>Author Default Operations</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>Author Settings<indexterm>Author default operations</indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>Below are listed all the operations and their arguments:<ul>
        <li><b><apiname>InsertFragmentOperation</apiname></b><p>Inserts an XML fragment at the
            current cursor position. The selection - if there is one, remains unchanged. The
            fragment will be inserted in the current context of the cursor position meaning that if
            the current XML document uses some namespace declarations then the inserted fragment
            must use the same declarations. The inserted fragment will not be copied and pasted to
            the cursor position, but the namespace declarations of the fragment will be adapted if
            needed to the existing namespace declarations of the XML document. For more details
            about the list of parameters go to <xref
              href="dg-author-op-InsertFragmentOperation-arguments.dita"/>.</p></li>
        <li><b><apiname>InsertOrReplaceFragmentOperation</apiname></b><p>Similar to
                <b><apiname>InsertFragmentOperation</apiname></b>, except it removes the selected
            content before inserting the fragment.</p></li>
        <li><b><apiname>InsertOrReplaceTextOperation</apiname></b><p>Inserts a text at current
            position removing the selected content, if any. The argument of this operation is:<ul>
              <li><b><apiname>text</apiname></b> - the text section to insert.</li>
            </ul></p></li>
        <li><b><apiname>SurroundWithFragmentOperation</apiname></b><p>Surrounds the selected content
            with a text fragment. Since the fragment can have multiple nodes, the surrounded content
            will be always placed in the first leaf element. If there is no selection, the operation
            will simply insert the fragment at the caret position. For more details about the list
            of parameters go to <xref
              href="dg-author-op-SurroundWithFragmentOperation-arguments.dita"/>.</p></li>
        <li><b><apiname>SurroundWithTextOperation</apiname></b><p>This operation has two arguments
            (two text values) that will be inserted before and after the selected content. If there
            is no selected content, the two sections will be inserted at the caret position. The
            arguments of the operation are:<ul>
              <li><b><apiname>header</apiname></b> - the text that is placed before the
                selection;</li>
              <li><b><apiname>footer</apiname></b> - the text that is placed after the
                selection.</li>
            </ul></p></li>
        <li><b><apiname>InsertEquationOperation</apiname></b><p>Inserts a fragment containing a
            MathML equation at caret offset. The argument of this operation is:<ul>
              <li><b><apiname>fragment</apiname></b> - the XML fragment containing the MathML
                content which should be inserted.</li>
            </ul></p></li>
        <li><b><apiname>InsertXIncludeOperation</apiname></b><p>Insert an
                <b><codeph>XInclude</codeph></b> element at caret offset.</p></li>
        <li><b><apiname>ChangeAttributeOperation</apiname></b><p>This operation allows
            adding/modifying/removing an attribute. You can use this operation in your own Author
            action to modify the value for a certain attribute on a specific XML element. The
            arguments of the operation are:<ul>
              <li><b><apiname>name</apiname></b> - the attribute local name;</li>
              <li><b><apiname>namespace</apiname></b> - the attribute namespace;</li>
              <li><b><apiname>elementLocation</apiname></b> - the XPath location that identifies the
                element;</li>
              <li><b><apiname>value</apiname></b> - the new value for the attribute. If empty or
                null the attribute will be removed;</li>
              <li><b><apiname>editAttribute</apiname></b> - if an in-place editor exists for this
                attribute, it will automatically activate the in-pace editor and start editing;</li>
              <li><b><apiname>removeIfEmpty</apiname></b> - the possible values are
                  <codeph>true</codeph> and <codeph>false</codeph>. True means that the attribute
                should be removed if an empty value is provided. The default behavior is to remove
                it.</li>
            </ul></p></li>
        <li><b><apiname>UnwrapTagsOperation</apiname></b><p>This operation allows removing the
            element tags either from the current element or for an element identified with an XPath
            location. The argument of the operation is<ul>
              <li><b><apiname>unwrapElementLocation</apiname></b> - an XPath expression indicating
                the element to unwrap. If it is not defined, the element at caret is unwrapped.</li>
            </ul></p></li>
        <li><b><apiname>ToggleSurroundWithElementOperation</apiname></b><p>This operation allows
            wrapping and unwrapping content in a specific element with specific attributes. It is
            useful to implement toggle actions like highlighting text as bold, italic, or underline.
            The arguments of the operation are:<ul>
              <li><b><apiname>element</apiname></b> - the element to wrap or unwrap content;</li>
              <li><b><apiname>schemaAware</apiname></b> - this argument applies only on the surround
                with element operation and controls if the insertion is schema aware or not.</li>
            </ul></p></li>
        <li><b><apiname>ExecuteTransformationScenariosOperation</apiname></b><p>This operation
            allows running one or more transformation scenarios defined in the current document type
            association. It is useful to add to the toolbar buttons that trigger publishing to
            various output formats. The argument of the operation is:<ul>
              <li><b><apiname>scenarioNames</apiname></b> - the list of scenario names that will be
                executed, separated by new lines.</li>
            </ul></p></li>
        <li><b><apiname>XSLTOperation</apiname></b> and
            <b><apiname>XQueryOperation</apiname></b><p>Applies an XSLT or XQuery script on a source
            element and then replaces or inserts the result in a specified target
            element.</p><p>This operation has the following parameters:<ul>
              <li><b><apiname>sourceLocation</apiname></b><p>An XPath expression indicating the
                  element that the script will be applied on. If it is not defined then the element
                  at the caret position will be used. </p><p>There may be situations in which you
                  want to look at an ancestor of the current element and take decisions in the
                  script based on this. In order to do this you can set the
                    <apiname>sourceLocation</apiname> to point to an ancestor node (for example /)
                  then declare a parameter called <apiname>currentElementLocation</apiname> in your
                  script and use it to re-position in the current element
                  like:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;xsl:stylesheet xmlns:xsl="http://www.w3.org/1999/XSL/Transform" version="2.0" 
  xpath-default-namespace="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" 
  xmlns:saxon="http://saxon.sf.net/" exclude-result-prefixes="saxon"&gt;     
    &lt;!-- This is an XPath location which will be sent by the operation to the script -->
    &lt;xsl:param name="currentElementLocation"/&gt;
    
    &lt;xsl:template match="/"&gt;
        &lt;!-- Evaluate the XPath of the current element location -->
        &lt;xsl:apply-templates 
        select="saxon:eval(saxon:expression($currentElementLocation))"/&gt;
    &lt;/xsl:template&gt;
    
    &lt;xsl:template match="para"&gt;
        &lt;!-- And the context is again inside the current element, 
        but we can use information from the entire XML -->
        &lt;xsl:variable 
            name="keyImage" select="//imagedata[@fileref='images/lake.jpeg']
              /ancestor::inlinemediaobject/@xml:id/string()"/&gt;
                &lt;xref linkend="{$keyImage}" role="key_include" 
                  xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"&gt;
                    &lt;xsl:value-of 
                          select="$currentElementLocation"&gt;&lt;/xsl:value-of&gt;
        &lt;/xref&gt;
    &lt;/xsl:template&gt;    
&lt;/xsl:stylesheet&gt;</codeblock></p></li>
              <li><b><apiname>targetLocation</apiname></b><p>An XPath expression indicating the
                  insert location for the result of the transformation. If it is not defined then
                  the insert location will be at the caret.</p></li>
              <li><b><apiname>script</apiname></b><p>The script content (XSLT or XQuery). The base
                  system ID for this will be the framework file, so any include/import reference
                  will be resolved relative to the <filepath>.framework</filepath> file that
                  contains this action definition.</p><p>For example, for the following script, the
                  imported <filepath>xslt_operation.xsl</filepath> needs to be located in the
                  current framework's
                directory.</p><codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;xsl:stylesheet xmlns:xsl="http://www.w3.org/1999/XSL/Transform" 
             version="1.0"&gt;
    &lt;xsl:import href="xslt_operation.xsl"/&gt;
&lt;/xsl:stylesheet&gt;</codeblock></li>
              <li><b><apiname>action</apiname></b><p>The insert action relative to the node
                  determined by the target XPath expression. It can be: Replace, At caret position,
                  Before, After, Inside as first child or Inside as last child.</p></li>
              <li><b><apiname>caretPosition</apiname></b><p>The position of the caret after the
                  action is executed. It can be: Preserve, Before, Start, First editable position,
                  End or After. If not specified the caret position ca be specified by outputting in
                  the XSLT script a <uicontrol>${caret}</uicontrol> editor variable.</p></li>
              <li><b><apiname>expandEditorVariables</apiname></b><p>Parameter controlling the
                  expansion of editor variables returned by the script processing. Expansion is
                  enabled by default.</p></li>
            </ul></p></li>
        <li><b><apiname>ExecuteMultipleActionsOperation</apiname></b><p>This operation allows the
            execution of a sequence of actions, defined as a list of action IDs. The actions must be
            defined by the corresponding framework, or one of the common actions for all frameworks
            supplied by Oxygen.<ul id="ul_hvc_pdd_vm">
              <li><b><apiname>actionIDs</apiname></b> - the action IDs list which will be executed
                in sequence, the list must be a string sequence containing the IDs separated by new
                lines.</li>
            </ul></p></li>
      </ul></p>
        <p>Author operations
      can take parameters that might contain the following editor variables:<ul>
        <li conref="../topics/editor-variables.dita#editor-variables/edVar-caret">
          <note>This editor variable is available only for parameters that take XML content as
            values.</note>
          <note>The <term>${caret}</term> editor variable is replaced with the <term>
              ${UNIQUE_CARET_MARKER_FOR_AUTHOR}</term> macro. The default Author operations process
            this macro and position the caret at the designated offset.</note>
        </li>
        <li conref="../topics/editor-variables.dita#editor-variables/edvar-selection"/>
        <li conref="../topics/editor-variables.dita#editor-variables/edVar-ask"/>
        <li conref="../topics/editor-variables.dita#editor-variables/edvar-timestamp"/>
        <li conref="../topics/editor-variables.dita#editor-variables/edvar-uuid"/>
        <li conref="../topics/editor-variables.dita#editor-variables/edVar-id"/>
        <li conref="../topics/editor-variables.dita#editor-variables/edVar-cfn"/>
        <li conref="../topics/editor-variables.dita#editor-variables/edVar-cfne"/>
        <li conref="../topics/editor-variables.dita#editor-variables/edvar-cf"/>
        <li conref="../topics/editor-variables.dita#editor-variables/edVar-cfd"/>
        <li conref="../topics/editor-variables.dita#editor-variables/edVar-frameworksDir"/>
        <li conref="../topics/editor-variables.dita#editor-variables/edVar-pd"/>
        <li conref="../topics/editor-variables.dita#editor-variables/edVar-oxygenInstallDir"/>
        <li conref="../topics/editor-variables.dita#editor-variables/edVar-homeDir"/>
        <li conref="../topics/editor-variables.dita#editor-variables/edVar-pn"/>
        <li conref="../topics/editor-variables.dita#editor-variables/edvar-env"/>
        <li conref="../topics/editor-variables.dita#editor-variables/edVar-system"/>
        <li conref="../topics/editor-variables.dita#editor-variables/edVar-date"/>
      </ul></p>
    </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="dg-author-op-InsertFragmentOperation-arguments.dita"/>
    <link href="dg-author-op-SurroundWithFragmentOperation-arguments.dita"/>
  </related-links>
</topic>
