<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/task.dtd">
<task id="dg-file-templates">
  <title>Configuring New File Templates</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Framework customization<indexterm>Configuring document
          templates</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <taskbody>
    <context>
      <p>A customized <xref keyref="glossentry_framework"><term>framework</term></xref> (document
        type) can point to a directory, usually named <filepath>templates</filepath>, that contains
        the file templates. All files found here are considered templates for the respective
        document type. The template name is taken from the file name, and the template type is
        detected from the file extension.</p>
      <p>To customize new file templates for a <term>framework</term>, follow these steps:</p>
    </context>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Go to your custom <term>framework</term> directory (<filepath><term
              conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
            />\frameworks\[CUSTOM_FRAMEWORK_DIR]</filepath>) and create a directory named
            <filepath>templates</filepath>.</cmd>
        <stepresult>The directory tree of the custom documentation <term>framework</term> should be
          something like
          this:<codeblock>[OXYGEN_INSTALL_DIR]
    frameworks
        [CUSTOM_FRAMEWORK_DIR]
            schema
            css
            templates</codeblock></stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the <filepath>templates</filepath> directory, create two files. A file for the
            <i>book</i> template and another one for the <i>article</i> template.</cmd>
        <stepresult>
          <p>An example for the <filepath>Book.xml</filepath> file:
            <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?&gt;
&lt;book xmlns="http://www.oxygenxml.com/sample/documentation" 
xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" 
xmlns:abs="http://www.oxygenxml.com/sample/documentation/abstracts"&gt;
    &lt;title&gt;Book Template Title&lt;/title&gt;
    &lt;section&gt;
        &lt;title&gt;Section Title&lt;/title&gt;
        &lt;abs:def/&gt;
        &lt;para&gt;This content is copyrighted:&lt;/para&gt;
        &lt;table&gt;
            &lt;header&gt;
                &lt;td&gt;Company&lt;/td&gt;
                &lt;td&gt;Date&lt;/td&gt;
            &lt;/header&gt;
            &lt;tr&gt;
                &lt;td/&gt;
                &lt;td/&gt;
            &lt;/tr&gt;
        &lt;/table&gt;
    &lt;/section&gt;
    &lt;/book&gt;</codeblock></p>
          <p>An example for the <filepath>Article.xml</filepath> file:</p>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?&gt;
&lt;article 
    xmlns="http://www.oxygenxml.com/sample/documentation" 
    xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"&gt;
    &lt;title&gt;&lt;/title&gt;
    &lt;section&gt;
        &lt;title&gt;&lt;/title&gt;
        &lt;para&gt;&lt;/para&gt;
        &lt;para&gt;&lt;/para&gt;
    &lt;/section&gt;        
&lt;/article&gt;</codeblock>
          <p>You can also use <xref href="editor-variables.dita">editor variables</xref>
            in the content of the template files and they will be expanded when the files are
              opened.<note>You should avoid using the
                <codeph>${cfd}</codeph>,<codeph>${cf}</codeph>,<codeph>${currentFileURL}</codeph>,
              and <codeph>${cfdu}</codeph>
              <xref href="editor-variables.dita#editor-variables">editor variables</xref>
              when you save your documents in a data base.</note></p>
        </stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Open the <xref href="the-document-type-dialog.dita#the-document-type-dialog"
              ><uicontrol>Document Type</uicontrol> configuration dialog box</xref> for your custom
            <term>framework</term> and click the <uicontrol>Templates</uicontrol> tab. In the
            <uicontrol>Templates directory</uicontrol> text field, introduce the
            <codeph>${frameworkDir}/templates</codeph> path. It is recommended that all the file
          references made from a <xref keyref="glossentry_document_type_association"><term>Document
              Type Association</term></xref> to be relative to the
            <b>${frameworkDir}</b> directory. Binding to an absolute file (e. g.:
            <filepath>C:\some_dir\templates</filepath>) makes the association difficult to share
          between users.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>To test the templates settings, go to <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>File</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>New</uicontrol>
          </menucascade> to display the <uicontrol>New</uicontrol> document dialog box. You should
          see the new templates in the folder for your custom <term>framework</term> (in the
            <uicontrol>Framework templates</uicontrol> section). The names of the two templates are
          prefixed with the name of the <term>framework</term>. Selecting one of them should create
          a new XML file with the content specified in the template file.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>
  </taskbody>
  <related-links>
    <linklist><title>Related Information:</title><link href="editor-variables.dita#editor-variables"/>
    <link href="custom-editor-variables.dita#custom-editor-variables"/></linklist>
  </related-links>
</task>