<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="dg-namespace-selectors">
    <title>Namespace Selector</title>
    <prolog>
      <metadata>
        <keywords><indexterm>Oxygen CSS Extensions<indexterm>supported features from CSS level 3<indexterm>namespace
          selectors</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
      </metadata>    
    </prolog>
    <body>
      <p>In the CSS 2.1 standard the element selectors are ignoring the namespaces of the elements
      they are matching. Only the local name of the elements are considered in the selector matching
      process.</p>
      <p><ph keyref="product"/> Author uses a
        different approach similar to the CSS Level 3 specification. If the element name from the
        CSS selector is not preceded by a namespace prefix it is considered to match an element with
        the same local name as the selector value and ANY namespace, otherwise the element must
        match both the local name and the namespace.</p>
      <p>In CSS up to version 2.1 the name tokens from selectors are matching all elements from ANY
        namespace that have the same local name. Example:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;x:b xmlns:x="ns_x"/&gt;
&lt;y:b xmlns:y="ns_y"/&gt;</codeblock>
      <p>Are both matched by the rule:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css">b {font-weight:bold}</codeblock>
      <p>Starting with CSS Level 3 you can create selectors that are namespace aware.</p>
      <example>
      <title>Defining both prefixed namespaces and the default namespace</title>
      <p>Given the namespace declarations:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css">@namespace sync "http://sync.example.org";
@namespace "http://example.com/foo";</codeblock>
      <p>In a context where the default namespace applies:</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>sync|A</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>represents the name A in the <codeph>http://sync.example.org</codeph> namespace.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>|B</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>represents the name B that belongs to NO NAMESPACE.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>*|C</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>represents the name C in ANY namespace, including NO NAMESPACE.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>D</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>represents the name D in the <codeph>http://example.com/foo</codeph> namespace.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </example>
      <example>
      <title>Defining only prefixed namespaces </title>
      <p>Given the namespace declaration:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css">@namespace sync "http://sync.example.org";</codeblock>
      <p>Then:</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>sync|A</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>represents the name A in the <codeph>http://sync.example.org</codeph> namespace.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>|B</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>represents the name B that belongs to NO NAMESPACE.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>*|C</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>represents the name C in ANY namespace, including NO NAMESPACE.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>D</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>represents the name D in ANY namespace, including NO NAMESPACE.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </example>
    <example>
      <title>Defining prefixed namespaces combined with pseudo-elements</title>
      <p>To match the <codeph>def</codeph> element its namespace will be declared, bind it to the
          <i>abs</i> prefix, and then write a CSS rule:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css">@namespace abs "http://www.oxygenxml.com/sample/documentation/abstracts";</codeblock>
      <p>Then:</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>abs|def</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>represents the name "def" in the
                <codeph>http://www.oxygenxml.com/sample/documentation/abstracts</codeph>
              namespace.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>abs|def:before</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>represents the :before pseudo-element of the "def" element from the
                <codeph>http://www.oxygenxml.com/sample/documentation/abstracts</codeph> namespace.
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </example>
    </body>
</topic>
