<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="dg-oxy-link-text">
  <title>Link Text: <codeph>oxy_link-text()</codeph> Function</title>
  <shortdesc>You can use this function on the CSS <codeph>content</codeph> property to obtain a text
    description from the source of a reference.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>CSS extensions<indexterm>Custom
            functions<indexterm>oxy_link-text</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <p>By default, the <codeph>oxy_link-text()</codeph> function resolves DITA and DocBook
      references. For further details about how you can also extend this functionality to other
        <xref keyref="glossentry_framework"><term>frameworks</term></xref>, go to <xref
        keyref="customize_extensions-bundle">Configuring an Extensions Bundle</xref>.</p>
    <section id="dita_support">
      <title>DITA Support</title>
      <p>For DITA, the <codeph>oxy_link-text()</codeph> function resolves the <codeph>xref</codeph>
        element and the elements that have a <codeph>keyref</codeph> attribute. The text description
        is the same as the one presented in the final output for those elements. If you use this
        function for a <codeph>topicref</codeph> element that has the <codeph>navtitle</codeph> and
          <codeph>locktitle</codeph> attributes set, the function returns the value of the
          <codeph>navtitle</codeph> attribute.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="docbook_support">
      <title>DocBook Support</title>
      <p>For DocBook, the <codeph>oxy_link-text()</codeph> function resolves the
          <codeph>xref</codeph> element that defines a link in the same document. The text
        description is the same as the one presented in the final output for those elements.</p>
      <p><b><u>Example: <i>oxy_link-text</i> Function</u></b></p>
      <p>For the following XML and associated CSS fragments the <codeph>oxy_link-text()</codeph>
        function is resolved to the value of the <codeph>xreflabel</codeph>
        attribute.<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;para>&lt;code id="para.id" xreflabel="The reference label">my code&lt;/code>
      &lt;/para>
&lt;para>&lt;xref linkend="para.id"/>&lt;/para></codeblock><codeblock outputclass="language-css">xref {
    content: oxy_link-text();
}</codeblock></p>
      <p>If the text from the target cannot extracted (for instance, if the <codeph>href</codeph> is
        not valid), you can use an optional argument to display fallback
        text.<codeblock outputclass="language-css">*[class~="map/topicref"]:before{
    content: oxy_link-text("Cannot find the topic reference");
    link:attr(href);
}</codeblock></p>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>
