<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="dg-organize-framework-files">
  <title>Organizing the Framework Files</title>
  
  
  <body>
    <p>First, create a new folder called <filepath>sdf</filepath> (from "Simple Documentation
      Framework") in <filepath>{oXygen_installation_directory}/frameworks</filepath>. This folder
      will be used to store all files related to the documentation framework. The following folder
      structure will be created:</p>
    <p>
      <codeblock>oxygen
  frameworks
     sdf
       schema
       css</codeblock>
    </p>
    <p>The <filepath>frameworks</filepath> directory is the container where all the oXygen framework
      customizations are located. Each subdirectory contains files related to a specific type of XML
      documents: schemas, catalogs, stylesheets, CSSs, etc. Distributing a framework means
      delivering a framework directory.</p>
    <p>It is assumed that you have the right to create files and folder inside the oXygen
      installation directory. If you do not have this right, you will have to install another copy
      of the program in a folder you have access to, the home directory for instance, or your
      desktop. You can download the "all platforms" distribution from the oXygen website and extract
      it in the chosen folder.</p>
    <p>To test your framework distribution, copy it in the <filepath>frameworks</filepath> directory
      of the newly installed application and start oXygen by running the provided start-up script
      files.</p>
    <p>You should copy the created schema files <filepath>abs.xsd</filepath> and
        <filepath>sdf.xsd</filepath>, <filepath>sdf.xsd</filepath> being the master schema, to the
        <filepath>schema</filepath> directory and the CSS file <filepath>sdf.css</filepath> to the
        <filepath>css</filepath> directory.</p>
  </body>
  
</topic>