<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="dg-styling-table-element">
  <title>Configuring tables</title>
  <body>
    <p>There are standard CSS properties used to indicate what elements are tables, table rows and
      table cells. What CSS is missing is the possibility to indicate the cell spanning, row
      separators or the column widths. <ph keyref="product"/> Author offers support for adding
      extensions to solve these problems. This will be presented in the next chapters.</p>
    <p>The table in this example is a simple one. The header must be formatted in a different way
      than the ordinary rows, so it will have a background color.</p>
    <p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css">table{
    display:table;
    border:1px solid navy;
    margin:1em;
    max-width:1000px;
    min-width:150px;
}

table[width]{
  width:attr(width, length);
}

tr, header{
    display:table-row;
}

header{
    background-color: silver;
    color:inherit
}

td{
  display:table-cell;
  border:1px solid navy;
  padding:1em;
}</codeblock>
    </p>
    <p>Because in the <xref href="dg-sdf-files-xml-schema.dita">schema</xref> the
        <codeph>td</codeph> tag has the attributes <b>row_span</b> and <b>column_span</b> that are
      not automatically recognized by <ph keyref="product"/> Author, a Java extension will be
      implemented which will provide information about the cell spanning. See the section <xref
        href="../tasks/dg-table-cell-spanning-provider.dita">Configuring a Table Cell Span
        Provider</xref>.</p>
    <p>The column widths are specified by the attributes <b>width</b> of the elements
        <codeph>customcol</codeph> that are not automatically recognized by <ph keyref="product"/>
      Author. It is necessary to implement a Java extension which will provide information about the
      column widths. See the section <xref href="../tasks/dg-table-column-width-provider.dita"
        >Configuring a Table Column Width Provider</xref>.</p>
    <p>The table from our example does not make use of the attributes <codeph>colsep</codeph> and
        <codeph>rowsep</codeph> (which are automatically recognized) but we still want the rows to
      be separated by horizontal lines. It is necessary to implement a Java extension which will
      provide information about the row and column separators. See the section <xref
        href="../tasks/dg-table-rowsep-colsep-provider.dita"/>.</p>
  </body>
</topic>