<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="dg-xpath-function">
  <title>XPath: oxy_xpath() Function</title>
  <shortdesc>This function is used to evaluate XPath expressions.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>CSS extensions<indexterm>Custom
            functions<indexterm>oxy_xpath</indexterm></indexterm>
        </indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <p id="p_vjd_dgk_54b">
      <dl id="dl_wjd_dgk_54b">
        <dlentry id="dlentry_xjd_dgk_54b">
          <dt>Syntax:</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_yjd_dgk_54b">
              <syntaxdiagram>
                <groupseq>
                  <kwd>oxy_xpath</kwd>
                  <sep>(</sep>
                  <kwd>XPathExpression</kwd>
                  <sep>[,</sep>
                  <kwd>processChangeMarkers</kwd>
                  <sep>,</sep>
                  <kwd>value</kwd>
                  <sep>]</sep>
                  <sep>[,</sep>
                  <kwd>evaluate</kwd>
                  <sep>,</sep>
                  <kwd>value</kwd>
                  <sep>])</sep>
                </groupseq>
              </syntaxdiagram>
            </p>
            <p id="p_zjd_dgk_54b">It evaluates the given XPath 3.1 expression using the latest Saxon
              XSLT processor bundled with the application and returns the result. XPath expressions
              that depend on the cursor location can be successfully evaluated only when the cursor
              is located in the actual XML content. </p>
            <p id="p_akd_dgk_54b">The parameters of the function are as follows: <ul id="ul_g4l_r5j_4r">
                <li id="li_bkd_dgk_54b">A required <codeph>expression</codeph> parameter, which is the XPath expression
                  to be evaluated. </li>
                <li id="li_ckd_dgk_54b">An optional <codeph>processChangeMarkers</codeph> parameter, followed by its
                  value, which can be either <codeph>true</codeph> or <codeph>false</codeph>
                  (default value). When you set the parameter to <codeph>true</codeph>, the function
                  returns the resulting text with all the change markers accepted (<i>delete</i>
                  changes are removed and <i>insert</i> changes are preserved). </li>
                <li id="li_dkd_dgk_54b">An optional <codeph>evaluate</codeph> parameter, followed by its value, which
                  can be one of the following:<ul id="ul_m32_lv3_qr">
                    <li id="li_ekd_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>dynamic</uicontrol> - Evaluates the XPath
                      each time there is a change in the document. This is the default evaluation
                        value.<note id="note_s4n_2gd_ttb" type="important">If the edited XML
                        document is large, using dynamic XPath evaluation may induce performance
                        issues while editing the content.</note></li>
                    <li id="li_fkd_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>dynamic-once</uicontrol> - Separately
                      evaluates the XPath for each node that matches the CSS selector. It will not
                      re-evaluate the expression when changes are made to other nodes in the
                      document. This will lead to improved performance, but the displayed content
                      may not be updated to reflect the actual document content.</li>
                    <li id="li_gkd_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>static</uicontrol> - If the same XPath is
                      evaluated on several nodes, the result for the first evaluation will be used
                      for all other matches. Use this only if the XPath does not contain a
                      relationship with the node on which the CSS property is evaluated. This will
                      lead to improved performance, but the static displayed content may not be
                      updated to reflect the actual document content.</li>
                  </ul></li>
              </ul></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
    <p id="note_hkd_dgk_54b">When XPath expressions are evaluated, the entities and
        <xmlelement>xi:include</xmlelement> elements are replaced with the actual content that is
      referenced. For example, consider the following code
      snippet:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_ikd_dgk_54b">&lt;article>
  &lt;xi:include href="section1.xml" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"/>
&lt;/article></codeblock>where <filepath>section1.xml</filepath> contains the following
      content:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_jkd_dgk_54b">&lt;section>
  &lt;p>Referenced content&lt;/p>
&lt;/section></codeblock>The XPath expression will be executed over the actual content in the
        <filepath>section1.xml</filepath> file.</p>
    <p id="p_kkd_dgk_54b"><b><u>Example: <term>oxy_xpath</term> Function</u></b></p>
    <p id="p_lkd_dgk_54b">The following example counts the number of words from a paragraph (including <xref
        keyref="glossentry_track-changes"><term>tracked changes</term></xref>) and displays the
      result in front of
      it:<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_mkd_dgk_54b">para:before{ 
  content: 
   concat("|Number of words:", 
    oxy_xpath(
        "count(tokenize(normalize-space(string-join(text(), '')), ' '))",
        processChangeMarkers,
       true),
    "| "); 
}</codeblock></p>
      <p id="note_okd_dgk_54b">The <codeph>oxy_xpath()</codeph> function supports <xref
          href="editor-variables.dita#editor-variables"><term>editor variables</term></xref>, as in
        the following
        example:<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_pkd_dgk_54b">* {
    content: 
    oxy_concat("Result: ", 
        oxy_xpath('count(collection("${cfdu}/?select=*.xml"))')
    );
}</codeblock></p>
      <p id="note_mxt_34g_fsb">You can split the XPath expression on multiple lines by adding a
        backslash before each new
        line:<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_mxm_j4g_fsb">* {
    content: oxy_xpath('count(\
                     collection(\
                        "${cfdu}/?select=*.xml"))')
}</codeblock></p>
  </conbody>
</concept>
