<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept id="dg-xml-instance-template">
  <title>XML Instance Template</title>
  <conbody>
    <p>Based on the XML Schema and CSS file <ph keyref="product"/> can help the content author in
      loading, editing, and validating the test reports. An XML document template must be created as
      a kind of skeleton that the users can use as a starting point for creating new test reports.
      The template must be generic enough and reference the XML Schema file and the CSS
      stylesheet.</p>
    <p>This is an example:</p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?&gt;
&lt;?xml-stylesheet type="text/css" href="test_report.css"?&gt;
&lt;report xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" 
  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="test_report.xsd"&gt;
  &lt;title&gt;Automated test report&lt;/title&gt;
  &lt;description&gt;
    &lt;line&gt;This is the report of the test automatically ran.
      Each test suite is ran at 20:00h each day.
      Please &lt;important&gt;check&lt;/important&gt; the failed ones!&lt;/line&gt;
  &lt;/description&gt;
  &lt;results&gt;
    &lt;entry&gt;
      &lt;test_name&gt;Database connection test&lt;/test_name&gt;
      &lt;passed&gt;true&lt;/passed&gt;
    &lt;/entry&gt;
    &lt;entry&gt;
      &lt;test_name&gt;XSLT Transformation test&lt;/test_name&gt;
      &lt;passed&gt;true&lt;/passed&gt;
    &lt;/entry&gt;
    &lt;entry&gt;
      &lt;test_name&gt;DTD validation test&lt;/test_name&gt;
      &lt;passed&gt;false&lt;/passed&gt;
    &lt;/entry&gt;
  &lt;/results&gt;
&lt;/report&gt;
</codeblock>
    <p>The processing instruction <codeph>xml-stylesheet</codeph> associates the CSS stylesheet to
      the XML file. The <codeph>href</codeph> pseudo attribute contains the URI reference to the
      stylesheet file. In the example, the CSS is in the same directory as the XML file.</p>
    <p>The next step is to place the XSD file and the CSS file on a web server and modify the
      template to use the HTTP URLs, like this:</p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?&gt;
&lt;?xml-stylesheet type="text/css" 
        href="http://www.mysite.com/reports/test_report.css"?&gt;
&lt;report xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" 
        xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation=
        "http://www.mysite.com/reports/test_report.xsd"&gt;
    &lt;title&gt;Test report title&lt;/title&gt;
    &lt;description&gt;
.......</codeblock>
    <p>If you want to share the files with other team members, you could create an archive
      containing the <i><filepath>test_report.xml</filepath></i>,
          <i><filepath>test_report.css</filepath></i>, and
        <i><filepath>test_report.xsd</filepath></i> and send it to the other users.</p>
  </conbody>
</concept>
