<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="dg-XPointerElementLocator-implem">
  <title>XPointer Element Locator</title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_ymb_dgk_54b"><i>XPointerElementLocator</i> is an implementation of the abstract class <xref
        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/ecss/extensions/api/link/ElementLocator.html"
        format="html" scope="external"><i>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.link.ElementLocator</i></xref>
      for links that have one of the following XPointer element() scheme patterns:</p>
    <p id="p_zmb_dgk_54b">
      <dl id="dl_anb_dgk_54b">
        <dlentry id="dlentry_bnb_dgk_54b">
          <dt>element (<i>elementID</i>)</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_cnb_dgk_54b">Locate the element with the specified ID.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_dnb_dgk_54b">
          <dt>element (<i>/1/2/3</i>)</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_enb_dgk_54b">A child sequence appearing alone identifies an element by means of stepwise
              navigation, which is directed by a sequence of integers separated by slashes (/). Each
              integer n locates the nth child element of the previously located element.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_fnb_dgk_54b">
          <dt>element (<i>elementID/3/4</i>)</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_gnb_dgk_54b">A child sequence appearing after a <i>NCName</i> identifies an element by means of
              stepwise navigation, starting from the element located by the given name.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
    <p id="p_hnb_dgk_54b">The constructor separates the ID/integers, which are delimited by slashes(/) into a sequence
      of identifiers (an XPointer path). It will also check that the link has one of the supported
      patterns of the XPointer element() scheme.</p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-java" id="codeblock_inb_dgk_54b">public XPointerElementLocator(IDTypeVerifier idVerifier, String link)
                      throws ElementLocatorException {
  super(link);
  this.idVerifier = idVerifier;

  link = link.substring("element(".length(), link.length() - 1);

  StringTokenizer stringTokenizer = new StringTokenizer(link, "/", false);
  xpointerPath = new String[stringTokenizer.countTokens()];
  int i = 0;
  while (stringTokenizer.hasMoreTokens()) {
    xpointerPath[i] = stringTokenizer.nextToken();
    boolean invalidFormat = false;
    
    // Empty xpointer component is not supported
    if(xpointerPath[i].length() == 0){
      invalidFormat = true;
    }
    
    if(i &gt; 0){
      try {
        Integer.parseInt(xpointerPath[i]);
      } catch (NumberFormatException e) {
        invalidFormat = true;
      }
    }

    if(invalidFormat){
      throw new ElementLocatorException(
        "Only the element() scheme is supported when locating XPointer links."
        + "Supported formats: element(elementID), element(/1/2/3), 
              element(elemID/2/3/4).");
    }
    i++;
  }

  if(Character.isDigit(xpointerPath[0].charAt(0))){
    // This is the case when xpointer have the following pattern /1/5/7
    xpointerPathDepth = xpointerPath.length;
  } else {
    // This is the case when xpointer starts with an element ID
    xpointerPathDepth = -1;
    startWithElementID  = true;
  }
}</codeblock>
    <p id="p_jnb_dgk_54b">The method <i>startElement</i> will be invoked at the beginning of every element in the XML
      document(even when the element is empty). The arguments it takes are</p>
    <p id="p_knb_dgk_54b">
      <dl id="dl_lnb_dgk_54b">
        <dlentry id="dlentry_mnb_dgk_54b">
          <dt>
            <i>uri</i>
          </dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_nnb_dgk_54b">The namespace URI, or the empty string if the element has no namespace URI or if
              namespace processing is disabled.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_onb_dgk_54b">
          <dt>
            <i>localName</i>
          </dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_pnb_dgk_54b">Local name of the element.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_qnb_dgk_54b">
          <dt>
            <i>qName</i>
          </dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_rnb_dgk_54b">Qualified name of the element.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_snb_dgk_54b">
          <dt>
            <i>atts</i>
          </dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_tnb_dgk_54b">Attributes attached to the element. If there are no attributes, this argument will be
              empty.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
    <p id="p_unb_dgk_54b">The method returns <codeph>true</codeph> if the processed element is found to be the one
      indicated by the link.</p>
    <p id="p_vnb_dgk_54b">The <i>XPointerElementLocator</i> implementation of the <i>startElement</i> will update the
      depth of the current element and keep the index of the element in its parent. If the
        <codeph>xpointerPath</codeph> starts with an element ID then the current element ID is
      verified to match the specified ID. If this is the case the depth of the XPointer is updated
      taking into account the depth of the current element.</p>
    <p id="p_wnb_dgk_54b">If the XPointer path depth is the same as the current element depth then the kept indices of
      the current element path are compared to the indices in the XPointer path. If all of them
      match then the element has been found.</p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-java" id="codeblock_xnb_dgk_54b">public boolean startElement(String uri, String localName, 
        String name, Attr[] atts) {
  boolean linkLocated = false;
  // Increase current element document depth
  startElementDepth ++;
  
  if (endElementDepth != startElementDepth) {
    // The current element is the first child of the parent
    currentElementIndexStack.push(new Integer(1));
  } else {
    // Another element in the parent element
    currentElementIndexStack.push(new Integer(lastIndexInParent + 1));
  }
  
  if (startWithElementID) {
    // This the case when xpointer path starts with an element ID.
    String xpointerElement = xpointerPath[0];
    for (int i = 0; i &lt; atts.length; i++) {
      if(xpointerElement.equals(atts[i].getValue())){
        if(idVerifier.hasIDType(
            localName, uri, atts[i].getQName(), atts[i].getNamespace())){
          xpointerPathDepth = startElementDepth + xpointerPath.length - 1;
          break;
        }
      }
    }
  }
      
  if (xpointerPathDepth == startElementDepth){
    // check if xpointer path matches with the current element path
    linkLocated = true;
    try {        
      int xpointerIdx = xpointerPath.length - 1;
      int stackIdx = currentElementIndexStack.size() - 1;
      int stopIdx = startWithElementID ? 1 : 0;
      while (xpointerIdx &gt;= stopIdx &amp;&amp; stackIdx &gt;= 0) {
        int xpointerIndex = Integer.parseInt(xpointerPath[xpointerIdx]);
        int currentElementIndex = 
          ((Integer)currentElementIndexStack.get(stackIdx)).intValue();
        if(xpointerIndex != currentElementIndex) {
          linkLocated = false;
          break;
        }
        
        xpointerIdx--;
        stackIdx--;
      }

    } catch (NumberFormatException e) {
      logger.warn(e,e);
    }
  }
  return linkLocated;
}</codeblock>
    <p id="p_ynb_dgk_54b">The method <i>endElement</i> will be invoked at the end of every element in the XML document
      (even when the element is empty).</p>
    <p id="p_znb_dgk_54b">The <i>XPointerElementLocator</i> implementation of the <i>endElement</i> updates the depth
      of the current element path and the index of the element in its parent.</p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-java" id="codeblock_a4b_dgk_54b">public void endElement(String uri, String localName, String name) {
  endElementDepth = startElementDepth;
  startElementDepth --;
  lastIndexInParent = ((Integer)currentElementIndexStack.pop()).intValue();
}</codeblock>
  </body>
</topic>
