<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="dictionaries-preferences-page">
  <title>Spell Check Dictionaries Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Preferences<indexterm>Spell Check Dictionaries</indexterm>
        </indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_gsp_bgk_54b">To set the Dictionaries preferences, <ph
        conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Spell Check</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Dictionaries</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>. This page allows you to configure the dictionaries (<filepath>.dic</filepath>
      files) and term lists (<filepath>.tdi</filepath> files) that <ph keyref="product"/> uses and
      to choose where to save new learned words.</p>
    <p id="p_hsp_bgk_54b">The following options are valid when <ph keyref="product"/> uses the Hunspell spell checking engine:<dl id="dl_isp_bgk_54b">
        <dlentry id="dictionary-folder">
          <dt><uicontrol>Dictionaries and term lists default folder</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Displays the default location where the dictionaries and term lists that <ph
              keyref="product"/> uses are stored.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="include-dictionaries-term-lists">
          <dt><uicontrol>Include dictionaries and term list from</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Selecting this option allows you to specify a location where you have stored
            dictionaries and term lists that you want to include, along with the default ones. <note
              type="important" id="dictionary-note">Consider the following notes regarding this option:<ul id="ul_jsp_bgk_54b">
                <li id="li_ksp_bgk_54b">The spell checker takes into account dictionaries and term lists collected both
                  from the default and custom locations and multiple dictionaries and term lists
                  from the same language are merged (for example, <filepath>en_UK.dic</filepath>
                  from the default location is merged with <filepath>en_US.dic</filepath> from a
                  custom location).</li>
                <li id="li_lsp_bgk_54b">If you have a generic dictionary file (one that just has a two-letter language
                  code for its file name, such as <filepath>en.dic</filepath>) saved in either the
                  default or custom location, the other more specific dictionaries (for example,
                    <filepath>en_UK.dic</filepath> and <filepath>en_US.dic</filepath>) will not be
                  merged and the existing generic dictionary will simply be used instead.</li>
                <li id="li_msp_bgk_54b">If the additional location contains a file with the same name as one from the
                  default location, the file in the additional location takes precedence over the
                  file from the default location.</li>
              </ul></note></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_nsp_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>How to add more dictionaries and term lists</uicontrol> link</dt>
          <dd>Use this link to open a topic in the <ph keyref="product"/> User Guide that explains
            how to <xref href="add-Hunspell-dictionary.dita#add-Hunspell-dictionary">add more
              dictionaries and term lists</xref>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_osp_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Save learned words in the following location</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the target where the newly learned words are saved. By default, the target
            is the application preferences folder, but you can also choose a custom location.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_psp_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Delete learned words</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Opens the list of learned words, allowing you to select the items you want to remove,
            without deleting the dictionaries and term lists.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
    <note id="note_qsp_bgk_54b">Words stored in dictionaries, term lists, and the list of learned words are not handled as
      case-sensitive. Therefore, you do not need to include both uppercase and lowercase versions of
      the words.</note>
  </body>
  <related-links>
      <link href="add-Hunspell-dictionary.dita#add-Hunspell-dictionary"/>
      <link href="add-terms-list.dita#add-terms-list"/>
  </related-links>
</topic>
