<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="diff-help-menu">
  <title><?oxy_comment_start author="steven_higgs" timestamp="20160412T124334+0300" comment="Could reuse some of these with the SA help menu."?>Help
    Menu<?oxy_comment_end?></title>
  <body>
    <p>The <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol> menu contains the following actions:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Help (<shortcut>F1</shortcut>)</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Opens a <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol> dialog box that displays the User Manual at a
            section that is appropriate for the context of the current cursor position.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Use Online Help</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If this option is enabled, when you select Help or press F1 while hovering over any
            part of the interface, <ph keyref="product"/> attempts to open the help documentation in
            online mode. If this option is disabled or an internet connection fails, the help
            documentation is opened in offline mode.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Report problem</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Opens a dialog box that allows the user to write the description of a problem that was
            encountered while using the application. You can change the URL where the reported
            problem is sent by using the <codeph>com.oxygenxml.report.problems.url</codeph> system
            property. The report is sent in XML format through the
              <systemoutput>report</systemoutput> parameter of the POST HTTP method.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Support Center</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Opens the <ph keyref="product"/> Support Center web page in a browser.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><menucascade>
              <uicontrol>Support Tools</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Clipboard Inspector</uicontrol>
            </menucascade></dt>
          <dd>Opens a dialog box that displays extensive details of all the transferable objects
            from the clipboard. This is helpful if you experience problems while copying content
            from other applications and pasting it into <ph keyref="product"/>. You can use the
              <uicontrol>Copy</uicontrol> button to copy all of this data and then paste it into an
            email to be sent to the <ph keyref="product"/> support team.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </body>
</topic>
