<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="diff-api">
  <title>XML Diff API</title>
  <body>
    <p>The following interface is available for calling the XML diff processor from a custom Java
      application:</p>
    <ul>
      <li><apiname>ro.sync.diff.api.DifferencePerformer</apiname> - It compares two resources of a
        given content type using a set of options. It has the following methods:<ul>
          <li><apiname>performDiff</apiname> - Perform a diff operation between the two specified
            resources. It returns a list with the differences. The parameters are the following:<ol>
              <li><keyword>leftContentReader</keyword> - A value of type <apiname>java.io.Reader</apiname> that provides the content of the first resource.</li>
              <li><keyword>rightContentReader</keyword> - A value of type <apiname>java.io.Reader</apiname> that provides the content of the second resource.</li>
              <li><keyword>leftSystemId</keyword> - A string value that is the location of the first resource.</li>
              <li><keyword>rightSystemId</keyword> - A string value that is the location of the second resource</li>
              <li><keyword>contentType</keyword> - A constant from the <apiname>ro.sync.diff.api.DiffContentTypes</apiname> interface.</li>
              <li><keyword>diffOptions</keyword> - The user options controlling algorithm strength,
                ignore whitespaces, ignore comments, merge adjacent differences, etc. It is a value
                of type <apiname>ro.sync.diff.api.DiffOptions</apiname>.</li>
              <li><keyword>diffProgressListener</keyword> - An object that will be notified about the progress of the diff operation. It is a value of type <apiname>ro.sync.diff.api.DiffProgressListener</apiname>.</li>
            </ol></li>
          <li><apiname>stop</apiname> - Signal to the <keyword>diff</keyword> performer that it must stop.</li>
        </ul></li>
    </ul>
    <p>An example of this interface can be found in the class
        <apiname>ro.sync.diff.api.sample.DiffXMLFilesSample</apiname> which is included in the XML
      Diff SDK.</p>
  </body>
</topic>

