<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="digital-signature-overview">
  <title>Digital Signatures Overview</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Digital Signatures<indexterm>Overview</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><i>Digital signatures</i> are widely used as security tokens, not just in XML. A <i>digital
        signature</i> provides a mechanism for assuring integrity of data, the authentication of its
      signer, and the non-repudiation of the entire signature to an external party:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>A <i>digital signature</i> must provide a way to verify that the data has not been
        modified or replaced to ensure integrity.</li>
      <li>The <i>signature</i> must provide a way to establish the identity of the data's signer for
        authentication.</li>
      <li>The <i>signature</i> must provide the ability for the data's integrity and authentication
        to be provable to a third party for non-repudiation.</li>
    </ul>
    <p>A <i>public key system</i> is used to create the digital signature and it is also used for
      verification. The signature binds the signer to the document because digitally signing a
      document requires the originator to create a hash of the message and then encrypt that hash
      value with their own private key. Only the originator has that private key and that person is
      the only one who can encrypt the hash so that it can be unencrypted using their public key.
      The recipient, upon receiving both the message and the encrypted hash value, can decrypt the
      hash value, knowing the originator's public key. The recipient must also try to generate the
      hash value of the message and compare the newly generated hash value with the unencrypted hash
      value received from the originator. If the hash values are identical, it proves that the
      originator created the message, because only the actual originator could encrypt the hash
      value correctly.</p>
    <p><i>XML Signatures</i> can be applied to any digital content (data object), including XML (see
      W3C Recommendation, <xref href="http://www.w3.org/TR/xmldsig-core/" scope="external"
        format="html">XML-Signature Syntax and Processing</xref> ). An XML Signature may be applied
      to the content of one or more resources:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Enveloped or enveloping signatures are applied over data within the same XML document as
        the signature</li>
      <li>Detached signatures are applied over data external to the signature element; the signature
        is "detached" from the content it signs. This definition typically applies to separate data
        objects, but it also includes the instance where the signature and data object reside within
        the same XML document but are sibling elements.</li>
    </ul>
    <p>The <i>XML Signature</i> is a method of associating a key with referenced data. It does not
      normatively specify how keys are associated with persons or institutions, nor the meaning of
      the data being referenced and signed.</p>
    <p>The original data is not actually signed. Instead, the signature is applied to the output of
      a chain of <xref keyref="glossentry_canonicalize"><term>canonicalization</term></xref> and
      transformation algorithms, which are applied to the data in a designated sequence. This system
      provides the flexibility to accommodate whatever "normalization" or desired preprocessing of
      the data that might be required or desired before subjecting it to being signed.</p>
    <p>Since the signature is dependent on the content it is signing, a signature produced from a
        <term>non-canonicalized</term> document could possibly be different from one produced from a
        <xref keyref="glossentry_canonicalize"><term>canonicalized</term></xref> document. The <xref
        keyref="glossentry_canonicalize"><term>canonical</term></xref> form of an XML document is
      physical representation of the document produced by the method described in this
      specification. The <xref keyref="glossentry_canonicalize"><term>XML
        canonicalization</term></xref> method is the algorithm defined by this specification that
      generates the canonical form of a given XML document or document subset. <term>XML
        canonicalization</term> is designed to be useful for applications that require the ability
      to test whether or not the information content of a document or document subset has been
      changed. This is done by comparing the <term>canonical</term> form of the original document
      before application processing with the <term>canonical</term> form of the document result of
      the application processing.</p>
    <p>A digital signature over the <xref keyref="glossentry_canonicalize"
        ><term>canonical</term></xref> form of an XML document or document subset would allows the
      signature digest calculations to be oblivious to changes in the original document's physical
      representation. During signature generation, the digest is computed over the
        <term>canonical</term> form of the document. The document is then transferred to the relying
      party, which validates the signature by reading the document and computing a digest of the
        <term>canonical</term> form of the received document. The equivalence of the digests
      computed by the signing and relying parties (hence, the equivalence of the
        <term>canonical</term> forms for which they were computed) ensures that the information
      content of the document has not been altered since it was signed.</p>
    <p>The following <term>canonicalization algorithms</term> are used in <ph keyref="product"
      />:</p>
    <p>
      <ul>
        <li><b>Canonical XML (or Inclusive XML Canonicalization)</b> (<xref
            href="http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/REC-xml-c14n-20010315" scope="external" format="html"
            >XMLC14N</xref>) - Used for XML where the context doesn't change.<p><term>Inclusive
              Canonicalization</term> copies all the declarations, even if they are defined outside
            of the scope of the signature, and all the declarations you might use will be
            unambiguously specified. <term>Inclusive Canonicalization</term> is useful when it is
            less likely that the signed data will be inserted in other XML document and it is the
            safer method from the security standpoint because it requires no knowledge of the data
            that are to be secured to safely sign them. A problem may occur if the signed document
            is moved into another XML document that has other declarations because the
              <term>Inclusive Canonicalization</term> will copy them and the signature will be
            invalid.</p></li>
        <li><b>Exclusive XML Canonicalization</b> (<xref
            href="http://www.w3.org/TR/2002/REC-xml-exc-c14n-20020718/" scope="external"
            format="html">EXCC14N</xref>) - Designed for <term>canonicalization</term> where the
          context might change.<p><term>Exclusive Canonicalization</term> just copies the namespaces
            you are actually using (the ones that are a part of the XML syntax). It does not look
            into attribute values or element content, so the namespace declarations required to
            process these are not copied. This is useful if you have a signed XML document that you
            want to insert into other XML documents (or you need self-signed structures that support
            placement within various XML contexts), as it will ensure the signature is verified
            correctly each time.</p></li>
      </ul>
    </p>
    <p>The <xref keyref="glossentry_canonicalize"><term>canonicalization</term></xref> method can
      specify whether or not comments should be included in the <term>canonical</term> form output
      by the <term>XML canonicalization</term> method. If a <term>canonical</term> form contains
      comments corresponding to the comment nodes in the input node-set, the result is called
        <term>canonical</term> XML with comments. In an uncommented <term>canonical</term> form
      comments are removed, including delimiter for comments outside document element.</p>
    <p>The three operations. <xref href="canonicalizing-files.dita#canonicalizing-files"
          ><uicontrol>Canonicalize</uicontrol></xref>, <xref href="signing-files.dita#signing-files"
          ><uicontrol>Sign</uicontrol></xref>, and <xref
        href="verifying-signature.dita#verifying-signature"><uicontrol>Verify
        Signature</uicontrol></xref>, are available from the <uicontrol>Source</uicontrol> submenu
      when invoking the contextual menu in <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode<ph
        product="author developer editor"> or from the <uicontrol>Tools</uicontrol> menu</ph><ph
        product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"> or from the <uicontrol>XML
          Tools</uicontrol> menu</ph>.</p>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="certificates.dita#certificates"/>
      <link href="canonicalizing-files.dita#canonicalizing-files"/>
      <link href="signing-files.dita#signing-files"/>
      <link href="verifying-signature.dita#verifying-signature"/>
      <link href="example-signing-files.dita#example-signing-files"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
