<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="dita-map-edit-map-specializations">
  <title>Editing DITA Map Specializations</title><prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>DITA Maps<indexterm>DITA specialization<indexterm>editing DITA Map specialization</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>In addition to recognizing the default DITA map formats: <codeph>map</codeph> and
        <codeph>bookmap</codeph> the <uicontrol>DITA Maps Manager</uicontrol> view can also be used
      to open and edit specializations of DITA Maps.</p>
    <p>All advanced edit actions available for the map like insertion of topic refs, heads,
      properties editing, allow the user to specify the element in an editable combo box. Moreover
      the elements which appear initially in the combo are all the elements which are allowed to
      appear at the insert position for the given specialization.</p>
    <p>The topic titles rendered in the <uicontrol>DITA Maps Manager</uicontrol> view are collected
      from the target files by matching the <codeph>class</codeph> attribute and not a specific
      element name.</p>
    <p>When editing DITA specializations of maps in the main editor the insertions of topic
      reference, topic heading, topic group and conref actions should work without modification. For
      the table actions you have to modify each action by hand to insert the correct element name at
      caret position. You can go to the <uicontrol>DITA Map</uicontrol> document type from the <xref href="preferences-document-type-association.dita"><uicontrol>Document Type
          Association</uicontrol> page</xref> and edit the table actions to insert the element names
      as specified in your specialization. See <xref href="../tasks/dg-configuring-actions-menus-toolbar.dita">this section</xref> for more details.</p>
  </body>
</topic>