<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="dita-map-edit-parameters">
  <title>Parameters Tab (DITA-OT Transformations)</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>DITA-OT transformation scenario<indexterm>Parameters tab</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_vtl_cgk_54b"><ph conkeyref="reusables-transforming-documents/intro-for-transformation-tabs"/></p>
    <p id="p_wtl_cgk_54b">The <uicontrol>Parameters</uicontrol> tab allows you to configure the parameters sent to the
      DITA-OT build file.</p>
    <p id="p_xtl_cgk_54b">The table in this tab displays all the parameters that the DITA-OT documentation specifies as
      available for each chosen type of transformation (for example, XHTML or PDF), along with their
      description and current values. You can find more information about each parameter in the
        <xref href="http://www.dita-ot.org/" format="html" scope="external">DITA-OT
        Documentation</xref>. You can also add, edit, and remove parameters, and you can use the
      text box to filter or search for a specific term in the entire parameters collection. Note
      that edited parameters are displayed with their name in bold.</p>
    <p id="p_ytl_cgk_54b">Depending on the type of a parameter, its value can be one of the following:<ul id="ul_ztl_cgk_54b">
        <li id="li_a5l_cgk_54b">A simple text field for simple parameter values.</li>
        <li id="li_b5l_cgk_54b">A combo box with some predefined values.</li>
        <li id="li_c5l_cgk_54b">A file chooser and an <xref href="editor-variables.dita#editor-variables" format="dita"
            >editor variable</xref> selector to simplify setting a file path as the value of a
          parameter.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <note id="note_d5l_cgk_54b">To input parameter values at runtime, use the <xref
        href="editor-variables.dita#editor-variables/edVar-ask"><i>ask</i> editor variable</xref> in
      the <uicontrol>Value</uicontrol> column.</note>
    <p id="p_e5l_cgk_54b">Below the table, the following actions are available for managing parameters:</p>
    <p id="p_f5l_cgk_54b">
      <dl id="dl_g5l_cgk_54b">
        <dlentry conkeyref="reusables-transforming-documents/new-dlentry" id="dlentry_h5l_cgk_54b">
          <dt/>
          <dd/>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="unset-dlentry">
          <dt><uicontrol>Unset</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Resets the selected parameter to its default value. Available only for edited
            parameters with set values.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry conkeyref="reusables-transforming-documents/edit-dlentry" id="dlentry_i5l_cgk_54b">
          <dt/>
          <dd/>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry conkeyref="reusables-transforming-documents/delete-dlentry" id="dlentry_j5l_cgk_54b">
          <dt/>
          <dd/>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
    <section id="webhelp_responsive_parameters_contributed_by_an_o">
      <title>Parameters Contributed by an Oxygen Publishing Template</title>
      <p id="p_k5l_cgk_54b">Transformation parameters that are defined in an <xref href="whr-publishing-template.dita"
            ><term>Oxygen Publishing Template</term></xref> descriptor file are displayed in
        italics. After <xref
          href="ope-create-publishing-template.dita#whr-create-publishing-template">creating a
          publishing template</xref> and <xref
          href="whr-publishing-template-apply-transformation.dita#whr-publishing-template-apply-transformation"
          >adding it to the templates gallery</xref>, when you select the template in the <xref
          href="templates-tab-whr.dita#templates-tab-whr"><uicontrol>Templates</uicontrol>
          tab</xref>, the <uicontrol>Parameters</uicontrol> tab will automatically be updated to
        include the parameters defined in the template descriptor file.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link format="html" href="http://www.dita-ot.org/" scope="external">
        <linktext><b>DITA Open Toolkit Documentation</b></linktext>
      </link>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
