<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="dita-content-completion">
  <title>Content Completion in DITA</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>DITA<indexterm>Content completion</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_jvv_bgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> includes an intelligent <xref
        keyref="glossentry_content-completion-assistant"><term>Content Completion
        Assistant</term></xref> that offers proposals for inserting structured language elements,
      attributes, and attribute values that are valid in the current editing context. The
      functionality of the feature is slightly difference for each editing mode:<ul
        id="ul_jvz_syz_d1c">
        <li id="li_kvz_syz_d1c">For detailed information about using the feature in
            <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode, see: <xref
            href="streamline-with-content-completion.dita"/>.</li>
        <li id="li_qgk_vyz_d1c">For detailed information about using the feature in
            <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode, see: <xref
            href="content-completion-author-mode.dita"/>.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p id="p_lmk_xyz_d1c">In addition to the general functionality and types of proposals that are
      offered in the <term>Content Completion Assistant</term> (as described in the two topics
      listed above), some DITA-specific actions are offered as proposals in the content completion
      when using the feature in DITA documents. These actions include:<ul id="ul_whf_pzz_d1c">
        <li id="li_xhf_pzz_d1c"><uicontrol>keyref</uicontrol> - Opens a pop-up window that allows
          you to choose a key from a list all the keys that are gathered from the context DITA map
          (except for those that point to <i>resource-only</i> topics). If the chosen key defines a
          keyword, the <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> attribute is inserted inside a
            <xmlelement>ph</xmlelement> element, while if the chosen key points to a resource, the
            <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> attribute is inserted inside an <xmlelement>xref</xmlelement>
          element.</li>
        <li id="li_v3v_q11_21c"><uicontrol>conref</uicontrol> - Opens a pop-up window that allows
          you to choose reusable content from a list all the reusable components (elements with IDs
          in topics that are referenced as <i>resource-only</i> in the context DITA map). For each
          element, a preview of the content is shown in the documentation panel to the right of the
          pop-up. Once an element is chosen, a <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> or <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt>
          is inserted, depending on the defined component.</li>
        <li id="li_gm5_zb1_21c"><uicontrol>xref (cross reference)</uicontrol> - Opens the dialog box
          that allows you to insert a link to a specified target DITA resource at the current
          location within a document. The target resource can be the location of a file or a key
          that is already defined in your DITA map structure. Once the target resource has been
          selected, you can also target specific elements within that resource. The action inserts
          an <xmlelement>xref</xmlelement> element with an <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> or
            <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> attribute that points to the target.</li>
        <li id="li_hc2_4c1_21c"><uicontrol>xref (web link)</uicontrol> - Opens a dialog box that
          allows you to insert a link to a target web-related resource at the current location
          within a document. The target resource can be a URL or a key that is already defined in
          your DITA map structure. It inserts an <xmlelement>xref</xmlelement> element with either
          an <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute or a <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> attribute.</li>
        <li id="li_gf5_xc1_21c"><uicontrol>simpletable</uicontrol> - Opens a dialog box that allows
          you to configure and insert a table. You can generate a header and footer, set the number
          of rows and columns of the table, and decide how the table is framed.</li>
      </ul></p>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="content-completion-author-mode.dita"/>
    <link href="streamline-with-content-completion.dita"/>
  </related-links>
</topic>
