<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="dita-validate-completeness-check-command-line">
  <title>DITA Map Validation and Completeness Check from the Command-Line Interface</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>DITA<indexterm>Maps<indexterm>Validate and Check for Completeness<indexterm>Run
                from Command-Line</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>
      <note type="important">This command-line script requires a special <b>Oxygen XML Scripting
          License</b> and does not work with a normal <ph keyref="product"/> license. For more
        information and to obtain an <b>Oxygen XML Scripting License</b> license, see the <xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/oxygen_scripting.html" format="html" scope="external"
          >Oxygen XML Scripting Web Page</xref>.</note>
    </p>
    <p>You can execute a <xref keyref="dita_validate-and-check-for-completeness"><uicontrol>Validate
          and Check for Completeness</uicontrol> operation</xref> with a script ran from the
      command-line interface. The operation can be executed by running the following script:<ul>
        <li><b>Windows:</b><codeblock outputclass="language-ini">validateCheckDITA.bat -i mainDitamapPath -s settingsFile -r reportFile</codeblock></li>
        <li><b>Linux:</b><codeblock outputclass="language-ini">sh validateCheckDITA.sh -i mainDitamapPath -s settingsFile -r reportFile</codeblock></li>
        <li><b>Mac OS
          X:</b><codeblock outputclass="language-ini">sh validateCheckDITA.sh -i mainDitamapPath -s settingsFile -r reportFile</codeblock></li>
      </ul>The script is located in the <ph keyref="product"/> installation folder and can be
      integrated in an external batch process launched from the command-line interface. The script
      accepts a variety of command-line arguments that allow you to configure the validation.</p>
    <p>The accepted arguments are as follows:</p>
    <p>
      <parml>
        <plentry>
          <pt>mainDitamapPath</pt>
          <pd>The path to the main <xref keyref="glossentry_ditamap"><term>DITA map</term></xref>
            file to validate. This is a required parameter.</pd>
        </plentry>
        <plentry>
          <pt>settingsFile</pt>
          <pd>The options file for the validate and completeness check. This file can be obtained
            from the <xref
              keyref="dita_validate-and-check-for-completeness/dita-map-completeness-dialog"
                ><uicontrol>DITA Map Completeness Check</uicontrol> dialog box</xref> by using the
              <uicontrol>Export Settings</uicontrol> action. If this parameter is missing, the
            default options for the validation will be used.</pd>
        </plentry>
        <plentry>
          <pt>reportFile</pt>
          <pd>The file where the validation report will be saved. If this parameter is missing, the
            report will be displayed in the console.</pd>
        </plentry>
      </parml>
      <note>When using this script, some of the options that appear in the <xref
        keyref="dita_validate-and-check-for-completeness/dita-map-completeness-dialog"
            ><uicontrol>DITA Map Completeness Check</uicontrol> dialog box</xref> are ignored. The
        ignored options include:<ul>
          <li><xref keyref="dita_validate-and-check-for-completeness/batch-validate-referenced"
                ><uicontrol>Batch validate referenced DITA resources</uicontrol></xref></li>
          <li><xref keyref="dita_validate-and-check-for-completeness/DITAVAL-from-current-set"
                ><uicontrol>Use DITAVAL filters: From the current condition
            set</uicontrol></xref></li>
          <li><xref keyref="dita_validate-and-check-for-completeness/DITAVAL-from-all-sets"
                ><uicontrol>Use DITAVAL filters: From all available condition
              sets</uicontrol></xref></li>
          <li><xref keyref="dita_validate-and-check-for-completeness/DITAVAL-from-associated-sets"
                ><uicontrol>Use DITAVAL filters: From the associated transformation
                scenario</uicontrol></xref></li>
          <li><xref keyref="dita_validate-and-check-for-completeness/repport-attr-values-conflict"
                ><uicontrol>Report attributes and values that conflict with profiling
                preferences</uicontrol></xref></li>
        </ul></note>
      <note type="tip">You can use DITAVAL filter files with the script by specifying one or more
          <filepath>ditaval</filepath> files in the <xref
            keyref="dita_validate-and-check-for-completeness/DITAVAL-other-files"><uicontrol>Use DITAVAL
            filters: Other DITAVAL files</uicontrol> option</xref> in the <uicontrol>DITA Map
          Completeness Check</uicontrol> dialog box.</note>
    </p>
    <p><b>Result:</b> The validation result is displayed in the command line interface. This
      includes whether or not the validation was successful, the number of issues, and the path to
      the report file (if the <b>reportFile</b> parameter was used), or the actual content of the
      validation result if the <b>reportFile</b> parameter was not used.</p>
    <note type="restriction">When using this script, the Saxon 9 XSLT processor used to apply <xref
      keyref="dita_validate-and-check-for-completeness/additional-schematron-checks">custom
        Schematron checks</xref> is not licensed and therefore the Schematron cannot call external
      Java extensions.</note>
  </body>
</topic>
