<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="dita-to-webhelp-responsive-with-oxygen-feedback-from-authoring-to-publishing">
    <title>DITA to WebHelp with Oxygen Feedback: From Authoring to Publishing</title>
  <shortdesc>This topic guides you through the entire workflow of editing a DITA publication,
    generating WebHelp Responsive output, and integrating <b>Oxygen Feedback</b>. You can choose
    between <b>Oxygen Feedback Cloud</b> (SaaS) or <b>Oxygen Feedback Enterprise</b> (self-hosted)
    for your feedback integration.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <keyword outputclass="label">WebHelp Output</keyword>
        <keyword outputclass="label">Site Configuration</keyword>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
    <body>
    <section id="section_vhh_flb_d2c">
      <title>Prerequisites</title>
      <p>
        <ol>
          <li><b>DITA Content Preparation</b>:<ul id="ul_dnv_hlb_d2c">
              <li>A DITA map file (<codeph>.ditamap</codeph>) and associated resources (e.g.
                  <filepath>.dita</filepath>/<filepath>.xml</filepath> topic files, images).</li>
              <li>Access to <b>Oxygen XML Editor</b> or <b>Oxygen XML Author</b>.</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li><b>Feedback Integration</b>:<ul id="ul_env_hlb_d2c">
              <li>Decide between:<ul id="ul_fnv_hlb_d2c">
                  <li><b>Oxygen Feedback Cloud</b> - Hosted by <b>Oxygen</b> at <xref
                      href="https://feedback.oxygenxml.com" format="html" scope="external"
                      >feedback.oxygenxml.com</xref>.</li>
                  <li><b>Oxygen Feedback Enterprise</b> - Installed and maintained on your own
                    servers (see the <xref
                      href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/5.1/ug-feedback-enterprise/topics/ofbENT-installation-docker.html"
                      format="html" scope="external">installation guide</xref>).</li>
                </ul></li>
            </ul></li>
        </ol>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_lwp_jlb_d2c">
      <title>Workflow Overview</title>
      <p>
        <ol>
          <li><b>Edit the DITA Publication</b>:<ul id="ul_p3n_4lb_d2c">
              <li>Open and edit the DITA map and topics in <b>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</b>.</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li><b>Generate WebHelp Responsive Output</b>:<ul id="ul_q3n_4lb_d2c">
              <li>Use the WebHelp Responsive transformation scenario in <b>Oxygen</b>.</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li><b>Integrate Oxygen Feedback</b>:<ul id="ul_r3n_4lb_d2c">
              <li>Embed the Feedback HTML fragment into your WebHelp Responsive transformation
                scenario.</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li><b>Deploy WebHelp on an HTTP Server</b>:<ul id="ul_s3n_4lb_d2c">
              <li>Copy the WebHelp output to an HTTP server to make it accessible online.</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li><b>Access the Published Output</b>:<ul id="ul_t3n_4lb_d2c">
              <li>Open the WebHelp output in a browser with <b>Oxygen Feedback</b> enabled.</li>
            </ul></li>
        </ol>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_hg1_qlb_d2c">
      <title>Step 1: Open and Edit the DITA Publication</title>
      <p><u><b>Procedure</b></u><ol id="ol_qv4_rlb_d2c">
          <li>Launch <b>Oxygen XML Editor</b> or <b>Oxygen XML Author</b>.</li>
          <li>Open the DITA map file (<codeph>.ditamap</codeph>) via the
              <uicontrol>Project</uicontrol> view or <menucascade>
              <uicontrol>File</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Open</uicontrol>
            </menucascade>.</li>
          <li>Edit topics as needed:<ul id="ul_rv4_rlb_d2c">
              <li>Use <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode for direct XML editing.</li>
              <li>Use <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode for a visual, WYSIWYG-style interface.</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li>Save all changes.</li>
        </ol></p>
      <p><u><b>Result</b></u></p>
      <p>The DITA map and associated topics are updated and ready for publishing.</p>
      <p><b>Learn more</b>:</p>
      <ul id="ul_tv4_rlb_d2c">
        <li><xref
            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/27.0/ug-editor/topics/eppo-pathfinder-documents.html"
            format="html" scope="external">Working with DITA Maps</xref></li>
        <li><xref
            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/27.0/ug-editor/topics/eppo-pathfinder-structure.html"
            format="html" scope="external">Working with DITA Topics</xref></li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="section_jw4_rzd_d2c">
      <title>Step 2: Generate WebHelp Responsive Output</title>
      <p><u><b>Procedure</b></u></p>
      <p>You can generate WebHelp Responsive output either from <b>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</b> or
        by using the <b>command line</b> with the <b>Oxygen Publishing Engine</b>.</p>
      <p><u><b>Option 1: From Oxygen XML Editor/Author</b></u><ol id="ol_sl1_212_d2c">
          <li>Open the <b>DITA Map WebHelp Responsive</b> transformation scenario in <b>Oxygen XML
              Editor/Author</b>.</li>
          <li>Configure the transformation:<ul id="ul_tl1_212_d2c">
              <li>In the <b>Output</b> tab, specify the local folder where the WebHelp output files
                will be saved.</li>
              <li>In the <b>Feedback</b> tab, paste the HTML fragment that is obtained during the
                  <xref href="ofb-creating-site.dita">Feedback site configuration
                process</xref>.</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li>Run the transformation scenario.</li>
        </ol><u><b>Option 2: From the Command Line</b></u><ol id="ol_ul1_212_d2c">
          <li>Install the <b>Oxygen Publishing Engine</b> on your machine. Refer to the <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/27.0/ug-ope/topics/ope-getting_started.html"
              format="html" scope="external">Getting Started Guide</xref> for installation
            instructions.</li>
          <li>Prepare the Feedback installation fragment:<ul id="ul_vl1_212_d2c">
              <li>Create an XML file (e.g., <codeph>feedback-fragment.xml</codeph>) and paste the
                Feedback HTML fragment that is obtained during the <xref
                  href="ofb-creating-site.dita">Feedback site configuration process</xref>.</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li>Use the following command to generate WebHelp Responsive output, specifying the path
            to the Feedback fragment file with the <codeph>webhelp.fragment.feedback</codeph>
              parameter:<codeblock id="codeblock_mrw_212_d2c" outputclass="language-cmd">dita.bat -i path/to/your.ditamap -f webhelp-responsive \
         -o path/to/output/folder \
         -Dwebhelp.fragment.feedback=path/to/feedback-fragment.xml</codeblock><p>Replace
              the paths with your actual file locations:<ul id="ul_yvt_n12_d2c">
                <li><codeph>path/to/your.ditamap</codeph> - The path to your DITA map file.</li>
                <li><codeph>path/to/output/folder</codeph> - The folder where the WebHelp output
                  will be saved.</li>
                <li><codeph>path/to/feedback-fragment.xml</codeph> - The path to the XML file that
                  contains the Feedback fragment.</li>
              </ul></p></li>
        </ol></p>
      <p><u><b>Result</b></u></p>
      <p>The WebHelp Responsive output (HTML5 files and associated resources) is generated:</p>
      <ul id="ul_hr3_v12_d2c">
        <li>If using <b>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</b>, the output is saved in the folder configured
          in the transformation scenario, and the main page of the output opens in the default
          browser.</li>
        <li>If using the <b>command line</b>, the output is saved in the directory specified in the
            <codeph>-o</codeph> parameter.</li>
      </ul>
      <p><b>Learn more</b>:</p>
      <ul id="ul_o1b_x12_d2c">
        <li><xref
            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/27.0/ug-editor/topics/wh-responsive-output.html"
            format="html" scope="external">DITA Map WebHelp Responsive Transformation</xref></li>
        <li><xref
            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/27.0/ug-webhelp-responsive/topics/whr-build-output.html"
            format="html" scope="external">Generating WebHelp from the Command Line</xref></li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="section_ps5_r4b_d2c">
      <title><b><b>Step 3: Integrate Oxygen Feedback</b></b></title>
      <p><u><b>Procedure</b></u><ol id="ol_g4y_54b_d2c">
          <li><b>Oxygen Feedback Cloud</b>:<ul id="ul_h4y_54b_d2c">
              <li>Log in at <xref href="https://feedback.oxygenxml.com" format="html"
                  scope="external">feedback.oxygenxml.com</xref>.</li>
              <li><xref href="ofb-creating-site.dita">Create a <b>Site Configuration</b></xref>,
                specifying the base URL where your WebHelp will be deployed.</li>
              <li>Copy the provided <b>HTML fragment</b>.</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li><b>Oxygen Feedback Enterprise</b>:<ul id="ul_i4y_54b_d2c">
              <li>Install and configure the Feedback service on your server (<xref
                  href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/5.1/ug-feedback-enterprise/topics/ofbENT-installation-docker.html"
                  format="html" scope="external">installation guide</xref>).</li>
              <li>Log in to the administration interface and <xref href="ofb-creating-site.dita"
                  >create a <b>Site Configuration</b></xref>.</li>
              <li>Copy the generated <b>HTML fragment</b>.</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li>Embed the HTML fragment into the <b>Feedback</b> tab of the WebHelp transformation
            scenario.</li>
        </ol></p>
      <p><u><b>Result</b></u></p>
      <p>The Feedback HTML fragment is successfully embedded into the WebHelp Responsive
        transformation scenario, enabling commenting functionality in the output.</p>
      <p><b>Learn more</b>:</p>
      <ul id="ul_zyh_z4b_d2c">
        <li><xref
            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/5.1/ug-feedback-enterprise/topics/ofb-creating-site.html"
            format="html" scope="external">Create a Site Configuration</xref></li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="section_k2h_1pb_d2c">
      <title>Step 4: Deploy WebHelp on an HTTP Server</title>
      <p><u><b>Procedure</b></u><ol id="ol_jzt_cpb_d2c">
          <li>Transfer the WebHelp output (HTML5 files and resources) to an HTTP server (e.g. Apache
            HTTPD, NGINX).</li>
          <li>Ensure the server is configured to serve the WebHelp content via a URL using
              <codeph>http</codeph> or <codeph>https</codeph>.</li>
        </ol><b>Important Notes:</b><ul id="ul_kzt_cpb_d2c">
          <li>The WebHelp content must be accessible via the internet or local network using a URL
            (e.g. <codeph>http://server-name/...</codeph>).</li>
          <li>The <b>Oxygen Feedback component</b> will only function when accessed via an HTTP(S)
            URL. It will not be displayed properly when opening files directly from a local system
              (<codeph>file://</codeph> URLs).</li>
          <li>This step must be performed by a <b>System Administrator</b> with access to the
            organization’s servers.</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p><u><b>Result</b></u></p>
      <p>The WebHelp Responsive output is deployed on the HTTP server and accessible through a
        browser using the associated URL.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_ok4_gpb_d2c"><title>Step 5: Access the Published
          Output</title><u><b>Procedure</b></u><ol id="ol_qln_3pb_d2c">
        <li>Open a web browser and access the WebHelp output using the server’s URL.</li>
      </ol><p><u><b>Result</b></u></p><p>The WebHelp content is displayed, and the integrated
          <b>Oxygen Feedback</b> component (e.g. comment sections) is functional and
      visible.</p></section>
    <section id="section_ofg_mpb_d2c">
      <title>Additional Resources</title>
      <p><b>Webinars</b>:<ul id="ul_ekv_4pb_d2c">
          <li><xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/demo/DITA_Editing.html" format="html"
              scope="external">DITA Editing</xref></li>
          <li><xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/events/2021/webinar_dita_publishing_and_feedback_with_oxygen_tools.html"
              format="html" scope="external">DITA Publishing and Feedback with Oxygen
            Tools</xref></li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <p>By following this workflow, you can seamlessly author, publish, and integrate <b>Oxygen
        Feedback</b> into your WebHelp Responsive output, ensuring an interactive and accessible
      user experience.</p>
    
    </body>
</topic>
