<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="dita-outgoing-references-addon">
  <title>DITA Outgoing References View Add-on</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Add-ons<indexterm>DITA Outgoing References View</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>DITA Outgoing References View add-on</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> offers an add-on that contributes a <uicontrol>DITA
        References</uicontrol> side view that shows all outgoing references for the current DITA
      topic. The view is available in both <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> and
        <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> modes. The types of references that are presented in this view
        include:<ul id="ul_v4r_qlv_nkb">
        <li>Image references (referenced with an <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> or <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt>
          attribute)</li>
        <li>References to other media resources (DITA objects pointing to video, audio, or
          embeddable frames)</li>
        <li>Cross references (referenced in an <xmlelement>xref</xmlelement> element with an
            <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> or <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> attribute)</li>
        <li>Key references (referenced with a <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> attribute)</li>
        <li>Content references (referenced with a <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> or
            <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> attribute)</li>
        <li>Related links (referenced with an <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> or <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt>
          attribute)</li>
        <li>Related links defined in relationship tables</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>This side-view is synchronized with the main editor to make it easy to locate a reference in
      the current document. It also includes contextual menu actions for opening the target of an
      outgoing reference or showing its definition location. You can also double-click a reference
      to open its target. </p>
    <p>To install it the add-on, follow these instructions:<ol>
        <li>Go to <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Install new add-ons</uicontrol>
          </menucascade> to open an add-on selection dialog box.</li>
        <li>Enter or paste
            <b>https://raw.githubusercontent.com/oxygenxml/oxygen-dita-outgoing-references-view/master/build/addon.xml</b>
          in the <uicontrol>Show add-ons from</uicontrol> field or select it from the drop-down
          menu.</li>
        <li>Select the <b>DITA Outgoing References View</b> add-on and click
            <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol>.</li>
        <li>Select the <b>I accept all terms of the end user license agreement</b> option and click
            <uicontrol>Finish</uicontrol>.</li>
        <li>Restart the application.</li>
      </ol></p>
    <p><b>Result:</b> The <uicontrol>DITA References</uicontrol> side-view will now be
      available.</p>
    <p>For more information, see the <xref
        href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/oxygen-dita-outgoing-references-view" format="html"
        scope="external">details for this <b>DITA Outgoing References View</b> add-on in
        GitHub</xref>.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
