<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="dita-topic-transformation-scenarios">
  <title>DITA Topic Transformation Scenarios</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Transformation Scenarios<indexterm>DITA topic</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>DITA topic<indexterm>Transformation scenarios</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>DITA topic transformations</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> includes built-in transformation scenarios for transforming individual
      DITA Topics to HTML5, XHTML, or PDF output. They can be found in the
        <uicontrol>DITA</uicontrol> section in the <xref
        href="configure-transformation-dialog.dita#configure-transformation-dialog"
          ><uicontrol>Configure Transformation Scenario(s)</uicontrol> dialog box</xref>.</p>
    <p>The available transformations scenarios for individual DITA topics include:<ul>
        <li><uicontrol>DITA HTML5</uicontrol> - This DITA-OT transformation scenario generates HTML5
          output from a single DITA topic.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>DITA XHTML</uicontrol> - This DITA-OT transformation scenario generates XHTML
          output from a single DITA topic. This was the first transformation scenario created for
          the DITA Open Toolkit and it originally served as the basis for all HTML-based
          transformations.</li>
        <li id="HTML5-CSS"><uicontrol keyref="single-topic-pdf-html5-transformation"/> - This
          transformation scenario converts individual DITA topics to PDF using a CSS-based
          processing engine and an HTML5 intermediate format. <ph keyref="product"/> comes bundled
          with a built-in CSS-based PDF processing engine called <b>Oxygen PDF Chemistry</b>. <ph
            keyref="product"/> also supports some third-party processors.<p>For those who are
            familiar with CSS, this makes it very easy to style and customize the PDF output of your
            DITA projects without having to work with <i>xsl:fo</i> customizations. Another
            advantage of this transformation scenario is that you can use the same <xref
              href="dcpp_the_customization_css.dita">customization CSS</xref> or <xref
              href="whr-publishing-template.dita">publishing template</xref> that you use for
            converting entire DITA maps.</p><p product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse"
            >The transformation scenario automatically detects the currently selected <xref
              href="dita-maps-manager.dita#dita-maps-manager/root-map">context DITA map (root
              map)</xref> so that keys and references are properly resolved (the detected context
            map is set as the value of the <codeph>args.root.map</codeph> parameter (this can be
            changed in the <uicontrol>Parameters</uicontrol> tab). It also automatically detects the
            currently <xref href="dita-apply-profiling-conditional-set.dita">applied profiling
              condition set</xref> to be used as the default filtering option in the transformation
            scenario (this can be changed in the <uicontrol>Filters</uicontrol> tab). </p><p
            product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse">The transformation scenario also
            supports a parameter named <codeph>args.enable.root.map.key.processing</codeph> that can
            be used to specify whether or not the values for <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> and
              <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> attributes within the transformed topics are resolved. The
            possible values are:<ul id="ul_bls_5hs_rjb">
              <li><b>no</b> - This means that the values for all <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> and
                  <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> attributes are ignored in the transformation. This
                results in lower processing times.</li>
              <li><b>yes</b> - This means that the values for any <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> and
                  <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> attributes found in the transformed topic are processed
                and resolved using the value of the <codeph>args.root.map</codeph> parameter.</li>
              <li><b>auto</b> - This means that the process will search for any
                  <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> attributes within the
                transformed topic and if any are found, the values will be processed and resolved
                using the value of the <codeph>args.root.map</codeph> parameter. If none are found,
                the <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> attributes are
                ignored.</li>
            </ul></p></li>
        <li><uicontrol>DITA PDF - based on XSL-FO</uicontrol> - This DITA-OT transformation scenario
          converts individual DITA topics to PDF using an <i>xsl:fo</i> processor.</li>
      </ul></p>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="edit-scenario-dialog.dita#edit-scenario-dialog"/>
      <link href="configure-transformation-dialog.dita#configure-transformation-dialog"/>
      <link href="apply-transformation-scenarios.dita#apply-transformation-scenarios"/>
      <link href="author-dita-map-transformation-scenarios.dita"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
