<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="dita-ot-customization">
  <title>Customizing DITA Transformations</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>DITA<indexterm>Output<indexterm>Customizing
            Transformations</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Customizing DITA transformations</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>You can customize the appearance of any of the output types by customizing the output
      transformations. There are several ways to do this:<ul id="ul_ftq_nmt_vp">
        <li>Most transformations are configurable by passing parameters to the transformation
          script. <ph keyref="product"/> allows you to <xref
            href="dita-map-edit-parameters.dita#dita-map-edit-parameters">set parameters</xref> on a
          transformation scenario and you can <xref
            href="transformation-scenarios-sharing.dita#transformation-scenarios-sharing">save and
            share them with others</xref>. You can also use the <xref
            href="editor-variables.dita#editor-variables/edVar-ask"><b>${ask}</b> editor
            variable</xref> in the <uicontrol>Parameters</uicontrol> tab to instruct <ph
            keyref="product"/> to prompt you for a particular parameter whenever a transformation
          scenario is run. You can set up multiple transformation scenarios for a given output type,
          allowing you to maintain several customized transformation scenarios for multiple types of
          output configurations.</li>
        <li>If you want to customize an output in a way not supported by the built-in customization
          options, you can create a modified version of the transformation code and execute it <xref
            href="dita-map-use-your-own-build-file.dita#dita-map-use-your-own-build-file">using a
            custom build file</xref>. Sometimes the transformation code exports specific forms of
          extensions or customizations. You should consult the DITA Open Toolkit for the
          transformation type that you are interested in to see what customization options are
          supported. <ph product="editor editorEclipse"><ph keyref="product"/> provides full editing
            and <xref href="debugging.dita#debugging">debugging support from XSLT and CSS
              stylesheets</xref>, which you can use to modify transformation code.</ph></li>
        <li>You can also write your own transformation code (and execute it <xref
            href="dita-map-use-your-own-build-file.dita#dita-map-use-your-own-build-file">using a
            custom build file</xref>) to produce a type of output not supported by the DITA Open
          Toolkit. <ph product="editor editorEclipse"><ph keyref="product"/> provides a full source
            editing environment for developing such transformations. </ph>You can create <ph
            keyref="product"/> transformation scenarios to run these scripts once they are
          complete.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>There are also many other ways to customize specific types of output generated from DITA transformations:<ul>
        <li><b>WebHelp</b> - For information about customizing WebHelp output, see the <xref
            href="wh_webhelp_output.dita#wh_webhelp_output">WebHelp Output section</xref>.</li>
        <li><b>PDF</b> - For information about customizing PDF output generated from DITA content,
          see <xref href="dita-pdf-output.dita#dita-pdf-output"/>.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <section id="section_bzh_wjn_hdb">
      <title>Publishing Customizations</title>
      <p>Some customizations (usually for HTML-based output), can be made simply by creating a
        custom CSS and they do not involve modifying the DITA-OT engine in any way. Instead, most
        customizations involve adding a new plugin to the DITA-OT. Here are some best practices to
        follow before beginning your customization:<ol id="ol_zbw_gkn_hdb">
          <li>Copy the bundled DITA-OT folder (usually
                <filepath>OXYGEN_INSTALL_DIR\frameworks\dita\<term
                conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/dita-ot-folder"/></filepath>) to a location where
            you have full write access so that you have the ability to <xref
              href="dita-ot-install-plugin.dita">install new DITA-OT plugins</xref>.</li>
          <li>Go to <menucascade>
              <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>DITA</uicontrol>
            </menucascade>, select <uicontrol>Custom</uicontrol> for the <uicontrol>DITA Open
              Toolkit</uicontrol> option and set the <uicontrol>Location</uicontrol> to be the path
            to the location where you copied the bundled DITA-OT folder. This will allow you to
            upgrade the version of <ph keyref="product"/> at anytime without affecting the
            publishing system.</li>
          <li>Share that external DITA-OT folder with the rest of the team. If you are using a
            repository (such as Subversion or Git), you can commit the entire modified DITA-OT
            publishing engine as part of your project. This will allow everyone in your team to use
            the official changes that you made. This will also allow you to set up some kind of
            automatic publishing system using an open-source integration server (such as <xref
              href="https://travis-ci.org/" format="html" scope="external">Travis CI</xref> or <xref
              href="https://jenkins.io/" format="html" scope="external">Jenkins</xref>).</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_dtx_fmn_hdb">
      <title>Customizing XHTML-based Output</title>
      <p><b>XHTML</b>-based output can be modified by using a custom CSS stylesheet to override
        various styles. If you <xref href="create-dita-ot-transformation.dita">edit an XHTML
          transformation scenario</xref>, there is a parameter called <b>args.css</b> that can be
        set to point to your custom CSS and a parameter called <b>args.copy.css</b> that can be set
        to <b>yes</b> to copy the CSS to the output folder.</p>
      <p>You can also create plugins to customize the XHTML-based output by adding an extra XSLT
        stylesheet. For for information, see: <xref
          href="http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2013/12/creating-simple-dita-open-toolkit.html"
          format="html" scope="external"/>. A list with all DITA-OT XSLT extension points can be
        found here: <xref
          href="http://www.dita-ot.org/dev/extension-points/plugin-extension-points-xslt-import.html"
          format="html" scope="external"/>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_qwg_14n_hdb">
      <title>Customizing WebHelp-based Output</title>
      <p>The <b>DITA-OT</b> that comes bundled in <ph keyref="product"/> includes specific plugins
        that provide the ability to publish DITA content to <xref href="webhelp-classic-output.dita"
            ><b>WebHelp Classic</b></xref> and <xref href="webhelp-responsive-output.dita"
            ><b>WebHelp Responsive</b></xref> output.</p>
      <p>For information about customizing <uicontrol>WebHelp Classic</uicontrol> output, see <xref
          href="customize_webhelp.dita"/>.</p>
      <p>For information about customizing <uicontrol>WebHelp Responsive</uicontrol> output, see
          <xref href="wh-responsive-customization-tips.dita"/>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_jdb_4pn_hdb">
      <title>Customizing PDF-based Output</title>
      <p><b>DITA to PDF</b> output can be customized either by creating a PDF customization folder
        (in this case, the DITA OT folder will not be modified at all) or by creating a PDF
        customization plugin. For information about customizing DITA to PDF output, see <xref
          href="dita-pdf-output.dita"/>.</p>
      <p>There is also a book called <xref
          href="https://xmlpress.net/publications/dita/dita-for-print/" format="html"
          scope="external">DITA For Print</xref> that contains details about how to customize
        various aspects.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_w2v_4pn_hdb">
      <title>Customizing PDF Output with CSS</title>
      <p><ph keyref="product"/> also includes a transformation scenario called <xref
          href="ditamap-pdf-css.dita"><b>DITA Map PDF - based on DITA &amp; CSS (WYSIWYG)</b></xref>
        that is based on a <i>DITA-OT CSS-based PDF Publishing plugin</i> that allows you to convert
          <xref keyref="glossentry_ditamap"><term>DITA maps</term></xref> to PDF using a CSS layout
        processor. For those who are familiar with CSS, this makes it very easy to style and
        customize the PDF output of your DITA projects without having to work with <i>xsl:fo</i>
        customizations. For more information about customizing PDF output using this transformation
        scenario, see <xref href="dcpp_the_customization_css.dita">DITA Map PDF - based on DITA
          &amp; CSS (WYSIWYG): Customization CSS</xref>.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link format="html" href="http://www.dita-ot.org/" scope="external">
        <linktext>DITA Open Toolkit Documentation</linktext>
      </link>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
