<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="dita-integrate-specialization">
  <title>Integration of a DITA Specialization</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>DITA<indexterm>Specialization<indexterm>Integration</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>A DITA specialization usually includes:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>DTD definitions for new elements as extensions of existing DITA elements.</li>
      <li>Optional specialized processing that is new XSLT template rules that match the extension
        part of the <codeph>class</codeph> attribute values of the new elements and thus extend the
        default processing available in the DITA Open Toolkit.</li>
    </ul>
    <p>A specialization can be integrated in the application with minimum effort:<ol
        id="ol_ytk_nzn_l3">
        <li>If the DITA specialization is available as a DITA Open Toolkit plugin, copy the plugin
          to the location of the DITA OT you are using (by default <filepath><term
              keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"/>\plugins</filepath>). Then run the DITA OT integrator
          to integrate the plugin. In the <xref href="scenarios-view.dita#scenarios-view"
              ><b>Transformation Scenarios</b> view</xref> there is a predefined scenario called
            <b>Run DITA OT Integrator</b> that can be used for this.<note type="important">The
            directory where the DITA OT is located needs to have full write access permissions set
            to it.</note></li>
        <li>If the specialization is not available as a DITA OT plugin, you have the following
            options:<ul id="ul_ddb_2g5_zn">
            <li>If the DTD that define the extension elements are located in a folder outside the
              DITA Open Toolkit folder, add new rules to the DITA OT catalog file for resolving the
              DTD references from the DITA files that use the specialized elements to that folder.
              This allows correct resolution of DTD references to your local DTD files and is needed
              for both validation and transformation of the <term>DITA maps</term> or topics. The
              DITA OT catalog file is called <filepath>catalog-dita.xml</filepath> and is located in
              the root folder of the DITA Open Toolkit.</li>
            <li>If there is specialized processing provided by XSLT stylesheets that override the
              default stylesheets from DITA OT, these new stylesheets must be called from the Ant
              build scripts of DITA OT. <note type="important">If you are using DITA specialization
                elements in your DITA files, it is recommended that you activate the
                  <uicontrol>Enable DTD/XML Schema processing in document type detection</uicontrol>
                option in the <ph
                  conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/preferences-document-type-association"/>.
              </note></li>
            <li>In your specialization plugin directory, create a folder called
                <filepath>template_folders</filepath>, which would contain all the folders with new
              file templates. In <ph keyref="product"/>, the templates contributed by the plugin
              will be available in the <uicontrol>New</uicontrol> document wizard.</li>
          </ul></li>
      </ol></p>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="http://dita4practitioners.github.io/dita-specialization-tutorials/" format="html"
        scope="external">
        <linktext>DITA Configuration and Specialization Tutorials</linktext>
      </link>
      <link href="../concepts/transformation-scenario.dita#transformation-scenario"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
