<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE troubleshooting PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Troubleshooting//EN" "troubleshooting.dtd">
<troubleshooting id="dita-ot-external-refs">
  <title>References Outside the Main DITA Map Folder</title>
  <troublebody><condition id="problem">
      <title>Problem</title>
      <p>A reference to a DITA topic, <term>map</term>, or binary resource (for example, an image)
        that is located outside of the folder where the main <xref keyref="glossentry_ditamap"
            ><term>DITA map</term></xref> is located leads to problems when publishing the content
        using the DITA Open Toolkit.</p>
    </condition><troubleSolution>
      <cause id="cause">
        <title>Cause</title>
        <p>DITA-OT often has trouble resolving references that are outside the directory where the
          published <term>DITA map</term> is found. By default, it does not even copy the referenced
          topics to the output directory. </p>
      </cause><remedy id="solution">
      <title>Solution</title>
        <steps-informal>
          <p>To solve this, try one of the following solutions:<ul>
              <li>Create another <term>DITA map</term> that is located in a folder path above all
                referenced folders and reference the original <term>DITA map</term> from this new
                map. Then transform this <term>DITA map</term> instead.</li>
              <li>Edit the transformation scenario and in the <b>Parameters</b> tab, change the
                value of the <uicontrol>fix.external.refs.com.oxygenxml</uicontrol> parameter to
                  <codeph>true</codeph>. This parameter is used to specify whether or not the
                application tries to fix such references in a temporary files folder before the DITA
                Open Toolkit is invoked on the fixed references. The fix has no impact on your
                edited DITA content.<note type="important">The
                    <uicontrol>fix.external.refs.com.oxygenxml</uicontrol> parameter is only
                  supported when the DITA OT transformation process is started from <ph
                    keyref="product"/>.</note></li>
              <li>For PDF output, you can edit the transformation scenario and in the
                  <b>Parameters</b> tab set the value of the
                  <uicontrol>generate.copy.outer</uicontrol> parameter to <codeph>3</codeph>. This
                parameter specifies whether to generate output files for content that is not located
                in or beneath the directory containing the DITA map file. By setting the value of
                this parameter to <codeph>3</codeph>, the transformation scenario shifts the output
                directory so that it contains all output for the publication.<note type="important"
                  >This method is recommended for transformation scenarios that use an external
                  DITA-OT.</note></li>
            </ul></p>
        </steps-informal>
    </remedy></troubleSolution></troublebody>
</troubleshooting>
