<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="dita-translating">
  <title>Translating DITA Projects Overview</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>DITA<indexterm>Translations</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Translating DITA content</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_ttn_dgk_54b">This topic contains some general information about translating DITA content and is meant to
      help those who do not store their DITA projects through a <b>Content Management System
        (CMS)</b> or other type of service that already includes their own translation support.</p>
    <section id="section_olv_ynp_rdb">
      <title>Choosing a Translation Agency</title>
      <p id="p_utn_dgk_54b">To minimize translation costs, it is recommended to choose a translation agency that is
        able to handle DITA content directly, without requiring you to convert the content to some
        intermediary format. This means that you benefit from the <xref
          href="eppo-pathfinder-reuse.dita">DITA reusable content features</xref>.</p>
      <p id="p_vtn_dgk_54b">If you plan to translate your DITA project, it is also recommended that you contact a
        DITA-aware translation agency as early in your process as possible because translation
        agencies who translate DITA content directly usually need to have a preliminary discussion
        about how your project is structured, which terms need to be skipped when translating, how
        various measuring units are translated, how content is reused, your metadata strategy, and
        how screenshots are handled. Those discussions may influence the way that you organize and
        write your DITA content.</p>
      <note id="note_wtn_dgk_54b">If your translation agency does not directly handle DITA content, there are commercial
        tools that can be used to convert <b>DITA</b> to <b>XLIFF</b> (for example, <xref
          href="https://www.maxprograms.com/products/fluenta.html" format="html" scope="external"
        />).</note>
    </section>
    <section id="section_lwt_rkp_rdb">
      <title>Optimizing Content for Translation</title>
      <p id="p_xtn_dgk_54b">In general, there are three main principles to take into account when writing DITA content
        that will be translated:<ol id="ol_axv_wkp_rdb">
          <li id="li_ytn_dgk_54b">Use a controlled vocabulary (for example, the <xref
              href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simplified_Technical_English" format="html"
              scope="external">Simplified Technical English vocabulary</xref>).</li>
          <li id="li_ztn_dgk_54b">Avoid reusing inline elements other than product names. The following <i>DITA Users
              List</i> discussion describes the reasons for this: <xref
              href="https://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/dita/201301/msg00029.html" format="html"
              scope="external"/>.</li>
          <li id="li_a5n_dgk_54b">Avoid profiling/filtering content at inline level, for similar reasons.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_hlq_cmp_rdb">
      <title>General DITA Project Structure</title>
      <p id="p_b5n_dgk_54b">It is usually considered best practice to organize your DITA maps/topics in a separate
        folder for each language. One folder that contains the English version of all of your DITA
        resources and a separate folder for each of the other languages you will translate with
        equivalent DITA resources translated in that specific language.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_pqy_rlp_rdb">
      <title>General Translation Workflow</title>
      <p id="p_c5n_dgk_54b">When translating DITA content, the most common workflow involves these steps:<ol
          id="ol_rwf_sz4_rdb">
          <li id="li_d5n_dgk_54b">Create your content in the primary language.</li>
          <li id="li_e5n_dgk_54b">Before each release, you gather all the DITA files that have been changed and need to
            be translated. <ph product="author editor">The <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-addons/topics/translation-package-builder-addon.html" product="author editor" format="html" scope="external">DITA Translation
              Package Builder Add-on</xref> could be handy for this.</ph> </li>
          <li id="li_f5n_dgk_54b">Send a copy of the relevant DITA files to the translation agency (known also as
            "localization service provider").</li>
          <li id="li_g5n_dgk_54b">Receive translated DITA content back from the translation agency and integrate it in
            each <xref href="#dita-translating/section_hlq_cmp_rdb" format="dita">language-specific
              project folder</xref>.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_anj_qyz_sdb">
      <title>Publishing Translated Content</title>
      <p id="p_h5n_dgk_54b">All of your translated DITA maps and topics should have the <b>xml:lang</b> attribute set
        with the appropriate value on the root element. Along with the actual translated content,
        the published output may also contain static text (such as the word <b>Table</b> followed by
        the table number, <b>Figure</b> following by the number, or <b>Note</b> appearing before the
        content of each DITA <xmlelement>note</xmlelement> element). The <b>DITA Open Toolkit</b>
        includes support for various languages for <xref
          href="http://www.dita-ot.org/2.0/readme/DITA-globalization-xhtml.html" format="html"
          scope="external">HTML-based output</xref> and <xref
          href="http://www.dita-ot.org/2.0/readme/DITA-globalization-pdf.html" format="html"
          scope="external">PDF-based output</xref>. You can also add support for other languages:
          <xref href="http://www.dita-ot.org/dev/topics/plugin-addgeneratedtext.html#ariaid-title1"
          format="html" scope="external"><b>Globalizing DITA Content: Customizing Generated
          Text</b></xref>. For information about how to add a new language to the <b>Oxygen WebHelp
          Responsive</b> output, see <xref href="localize-webhelp-responsive-new-lang.dita"/>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_ipw_qrp_rdb">
      <title>Liability</title>
      <p id="p_i5n_dgk_54b">Translation agencies usually do not assume any liability for incorrectly translated
        content. If possible, it is recommended to have someone who is familiar with the particular
        language be responsible for reviewing and accepting the translated content. For example, if
        your company has regional headquarters located in various countries, perhaps someone from
        each headquarters could review the translated content. </p>
    </section>
    <section id="resources">
      <title>Other Resources</title>
      <p id="p_j5n_dgk_54b">Here are some links to other resources that might help you with translating DITA projects:<ul id="ul_k5n_dgk_54b">
          <li id="li_l5n_dgk_54b"><xref
              href="https://www.maxprograms.com/articles/organize_files.html" format="html"
              scope="external">DITA Translation: Organizing Your DITA Files</xref></li>
          <li id="li_m5n_dgk_54b"><xref href="https://www.maxprograms.com/articles/ditaxliff.html"
              format="html" scope="external">DITA Translation: Using XLIFF to Translate DITA
              Projects</xref></li>
          <li id="li_n5n_dgk_54b"><xref href="https://www.whp.net/en/category/blog-en/" format="html" scope="external"
              >WhP Localization Services Blog Page</xref></li>
          <li id="li_kfp_yj2_bxb">Webinar: <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/events/2023/webinar_dita_project_management_validation_and_translation_in_a_docs_as_code_environment.html"
              format="html" scope="external"><b>DITA Project Management, Validation, and Translation
                in a Docs as Code Environment</b></xref></li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
