<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="dita-map-transform">
  <title>Publishing DITA Output</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>DITA<indexterm>Output</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>DITA<indexterm>Publishing</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_fcn_dgk_54b">As a structured writing format, DITA produces structured content (content that is annotated
      with specific structural and semantic information rather than with formatting information). To
      create a publication, your <xref keyref="glossentry_ditamap"><term>DITA map</term></xref> and
      its associated topics must be processed by a transformation script. That script is responsible
      for how the structural and semantic information in the DITA files is converted into formatting
      information for display.</p>
    <p id="p_gcn_dgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> publishes DITA content to various output sources using a bundled
      version of the <xref href="https://www.dita-ot.org/" format="html" scope="external">DITA Open
        Toolkit</xref>. The DITA-OT is an open-source publishing engine that can publish DITA
      content to various output sources such as <b>XHTML</b>, <b>PDF</b>, or <b>Windows Help
        (CHM)</b>. Since it has a plugin-based architecture, it can be extended with extra plugins
      that either define new formats for conversion or customize an existing conversion format. You
      can run the DITA-OT from <ph keyref="product"/> using a transformation scenario or you can run
      it directly from a command line: <xref
        href="http://www.dita-ot.org/dev/topics/building-output.html" format="html" scope="external"
      />.</p>
    <p id="p_hcn_dgk_54b">The DITA-OT that comes bundled with <ph keyref="product"/> contains more plugins than the
      standard DITA-OT that can be downloaded from their official website. For example, it contains
      pre-installed plugins for converting DITA content to Word, EPUB, WebHelp, or to publish to PDF
      using CSS to customize the output. </p>
    <p id="p_icn_dgk_54b">You can download and install extra publishing plugins either from the <xref
        href="https://www.dita-ot.org/dev/topics/plugins-registry.html" format="html"
        scope="external">DITA Open Toolkit registry</xref> or from the <xref
        href="extra-oxygen-free-dita-ot-plugins.dita#extra-oxygen-free-dita-ot-plugins"> list of
        free plugins</xref> on the <ph keyref="product"/> GitHub account.</p>
    <note id="note_z2p_rwj_frb" type="warning">Keep in mind that there could be instances where
      there are differences between what you see in <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode and what you
      see in the published output. This is typically due to certain limitations in the publishing
      engine, especially when the source documents contain advanced constructs such as key scopes,
      branch filtering, chunking, or reusing content through direct references between topics marked
      for publishing.</note>
  </body>
</topic>
