<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="dita-map-edit-feedback">
  <title>Feedback Tab (DITA-OT Transformations)</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>DITA-OT transformation scenario<indexterm>Feedback tab</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph conkeyref="reusables-transforming-documents/intro-for-transformation-tabs"/></p>
    <p>The <uicontrol>Feedback</uicontrol> tab is for those who want to provide a way for users to
      offer feedback and ask questions in the published output and it is available for the
        <uicontrol>DITA Map WebHelp Responsive</uicontrol> transformation type. To add a comments
      component in the output, you need to use <xref
        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/oxygen_feedback.html" format="html" scope="external"
          ><b>Oxygen Feedback</b></xref> to create a site configuration for the website where your
      WebHelp output is published and use this <uicontrol>Feedback</uicontrol> tab to instruct the
      transformation to install the comments component at the bottom of each WebHelp page.</p>
    <p>When you create a site configuration in the <xref
        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-feedback/topics/ofb-administrator-guide.html"
        format="html" scope="external"><b>Oxygen Feedback</b> administration interface</xref>, an
      HTML fragment is generated during the final step of the creation process. You need to click
      the <uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol> button at the bottom-right of this tab to open a dialog box
      where you will paste the generated HTML fragment. The HTML fragment can also be set in an
        <xref href="whr-publishing-template.dita"><b>Oxygen Publishing Template</b></xref>, either
      as an <xref href="whr_publishing_template_contents.dita#html_fragment_extension_points">HTML
        fragment extension point</xref> or as a <xref
        href="whr_publishing_template_contents.dita#transformation_parameters">transformation
        parameter</xref> (the <codeph>webhelp.fragment.feedback</codeph> parameter). If the fragment
      is specified in multiple places, the order of precedence (from highest to lowest) is:<ul
        id="ul_yn4_bpq_pkb">
        <li>The fragment specified directly in the <uicontrol>Feedback</uicontrol> tab.</li>
        <li>The fragment specified in a publishing template as an HTML fragment extension
          point.</li>
        <li>The fragment specified in a publishing template as a transformation parameter.</li>
      </ul></p>
  </body>
</topic>
