<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="dita-prolog-updater">
  <title>DITA Prolog Updater Add-on</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Add-ons<indexterm>DITA prolog updater</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>DITA prolog updater add-on</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_gvg_dgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> offers an add-on that contributes a preferences page (<menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Plugins</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>DITA Prolog Updater</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>) that includes various options for updating the <i>prolog</i> section of a DITA
      topic or map.</p>
    <section id="installing_the_addon">
      <title>Installing the Add-on</title>
      <p id="p_hvg_dgk_54b">To install the add-on, follow these instructions:<ol id="ol_ivg_dgk_54b">
        <li id="li_jvg_dgk_54b">Go to <menucascade>
          <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Install new add-ons</uicontrol>
          </menucascade> to open an add-on selection dialog box.</li>
        <li id="li_kvg_dgk_54b">Enter or paste <b>https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Addons/default/updateSite.xml</b> in the <uicontrol>Show add-ons from</uicontrol> field or select it from the drop-down menu.</li>
        <li id="li_lvg_dgk_54b">Select the <b>DITA Prolog Updater</b> add-on and click <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol>.</li>
        <li id="li_mvg_dgk_54b">Read the end-user license agreement. Then select the <uicontrol>I accept all terms of
          the end-user license agreement</uicontrol> option and click <uicontrol>Finish</uicontrol>.</li>
        <li id="li_nvg_dgk_54b">Restart the application.</li>
        </ol></p>
      <p id="p_ovg_dgk_54b"><b>Result:</b> The <b>DITA Prolog Updater</b> preferences page will now be available in <menucascade>
          <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Plugins</uicontrol>
        </menucascade>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="dita_prolog_updater_preferences_page">
      <title>DITA Prolog Updater Preferences Page</title>
      <p id="p_pvg_dgk_54b">The contributed preferences page (<menucascade>
          <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Plugins</uicontrol>
        </menucascade>) includes the following general options:<dl id="dl_qvg_dgk_54b">
          <dlentry id="dlentry_rvg_dgk_54b">
            <dt><b>Author</b></dt>
            <dd>Specifies the name of the author. By default, it is the system user name.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_svg_dgk_54b">
            <dt><uicontrol>Date format</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>Specifies the format of the date that will be added in the prolog section. If the
              date format entered is invalid, the <i>yyy/MM/dd</i> format is used by default.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_tvg_dgk_54b">
            <dt><uicontrol>Limit the number of revised dates to</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>Specifies the number of revisions that will be kept. Anytime a
                <xmlelement>revised</xmlelement> element is added in the prolog section and the
              specified limit has been reached, the oldest <xmlelement>revised</xmlelement> element
              is deleted.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Custom <i>type</i> attribute value for the original author</dt>
            <dd>Specifies a custom value for the <i>type</i> attribute of the
                <xmlelement>author</xmlelement> element that is inserted to emphasize the primary or
              original author of the content. When is not set, the <i>creator</i> value is
              used.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Custom <i>type</i> attribute value for an additional author</dt>
            <dd>Specifies a custom value for the <i>type</i> attribute of the
                <xmlelement>author</xmlelement> element that is inserted to emphasize an additional
              author who is not the primary/original author. When is not set, the <i>contributor</i>
              value is used.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl></p>
      <p id="p_uvg_dgk_54b">These options are followed by the following options that can be set for DITA topics or maps
        (or both):<dl id="dl_vvg_dgk_54b">
          <dlentry id="dlentry_wvg_dgk_54b">
            <dt><b>Enable automatic prolog update on save</b></dt>
            <dd>When this option is selected, the prolog is updated anytime the document is
              saved.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_xvg_dgk_54b">
            <dt><b>Set original author</b></dt>
            <dd>When this option is selected, the primary or original author is set in
              the prolog when the document is saved. This option is only applicable for new
              documents.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_yvg_dgk_54b">
            <dt><b>Set created date</b></dt>
            <dd>When this option is selected, a <i>created date</i> is added to the prolog when the
              document is saved. This option is only applicable for new documents.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_zvg_dgk_54b">
            <dt><b>Update additional authors</b></dt>
            <dd>When this option is selected, an additional author is set in the
              prolog when the document is saved. This option is only applicable for already existing
              documents.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_awg_dgk_54b">
            <dt><b>Update revised dates</b></dt>
            <dd>When this option is selected, a <i>revised date</i> is added to the prolog when the
              document is saved. This option is only applicable for already existing documents.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl></p>
    </section>
    <p id="p_bwg_dgk_54b">For more information, see the <xref
        href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/oxygen-dita-prolog-updater" format="html"
        scope="external">details for this <b>DITA Prolog Updater</b> add-on in GitHub</xref>.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
