<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="dita-maps-editing-actions">
  <title>Editing Actions</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>DITA Maps<indexterm>editing actions</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <?oxy_comment_start author="Mark" timestamp="20141001T111655-0400" comment="This is out of context. Not sure where it actually belongs. 
"?>
    <note type="important">References can be made either by using the <codeph>href</codeph>
      attribute or by using the new <codeph>keyref</codeph> attribute to point to a key defined in
      the map. <ph keyref="product"/> tries to resolve both cases. <codeph>keyref</codeph>s are
      solved relative to the current map.<?oxy_comment_end?></note>
    <p product="editor author">In additional to being available on the toolbar and on the contextual
      menu, more navigation actions and all edit actions appear in the <uicontrol>DITA
        Maps</uicontrol> menu. The menu is only available when the view is active on screen.</p>
    <p>In addition to the edit actions described above, the contextual menu contains the following
      actions:</p>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><uicontrol>Open</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>Opens in the editor the resources referred by the nodes you select.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><uicontrol>Append Child/Insert After</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>Sub-menus containing the following actions:<dl>
            <dlentry>
              <dt><uicontrol>Reference</uicontrol></dt>
              <dd>Appends/Inserts a topic reference as a child/sibling of the selected node.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry product="author editor">
              <dt><uicontrol>Reference to the current edited file</uicontrol></dt>
              <dd>Appends/Inserts a topic reference to the current edited file as a child/sibling of
                the selected node.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry product="author editor">
              <dt><uicontrol>New topic</uicontrol></dt>
              <dd>Create a new topic from templates, saves it on disk and adds it into the DITA
                map.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry product="authorEclipse editorEclipse">
              <dt><uicontrol>New topic</uicontrol></dt>
              <dd>Create a new topic from templates, saves it on disk and adds it into the DITA
                  map.<note>This action is available for the <uicontrol>Append Child</uicontrol>
                  action.</note></dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
              <dt><uicontrol>Anchor Reference</uicontrol></dt>
              <dd>, <uicontrol>Key Definition</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Map Reference</uicontrol>,
                  <uicontrol>Topic Reference</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Topic Set</uicontrol>,
                  <uicontrol>Topic Set Reference</uicontrol>Allows you to insert a reference to a
                topic file, a map file, a topic set, or a key definition.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
              <dt><uicontrol>Topic heading</uicontrol></dt>
              <dd>Appends/Inserts a topic heading as a child/sibling of the selected node.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
              <dt><uicontrol>Topic group</uicontrol></dt>
              <dd>Appends/Inserts a topic group as a child/sibling of the selected node.</dd>
            </dlentry>
          </dl></dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry product="editor author">
        <dt><uicontrol>Find/Replace in Files</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>Find and replace in files using the scope of the current edited map.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><uicontrol>Check Spelling in Files</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>Checks the spelling of the files in the scope of the current edited map.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><uicontrol>Search References</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>Finds in the current map all references to the selected topic reference
            (<codeph>topicref</codeph> or <codeph>mapref</codeph> element) and to each element with
          an ID attribute contained in the selected topic. If the current selection in the
            <uicontrol>DITA Maps Manager</uicontrol> view is a <codeph>keydef</codeph> element the
          action will find any element with an attribute <codeph>idref</codeph>,
            <codeph>keyref</codeph>, <codeph>conref</codeph> or <codeph>conkeyref</codeph> that
          points to the selected <codeph>keydef</codeph>. <ph product="editor author developer">A
            shortcut can be set for this action in <xref
              href="preferences-menu-shortcut-keys.dita#preferences-menu-shortcut-keys"
              format="dita">the <uicontrol>Menu Shortcut Keys</uicontrol>
          preferences</xref>.</ph></dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><uicontrol>Cut, Copy, Paste, Undo, Redo</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>Common edit actions with the same functionality as those found in the text editor.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><uicontrol>Paste Before, Paste After</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>Pastes the content of the clipboard before, respectively after, the selected node.</dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <p>You can also arrange the nodes by dragging and dropping one or more nodes at a time. Drop
      operations can be performed before, after or as child of the targeted node. The relative
      location of the drop is indicated while hovering the mouse over a node before releasing the
      mouse button for the drop.</p>
    <p>Drag and drop operations allow you to:</p>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><uicontrol>Copy</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>Select the nodes you want to copy and start dragging them. Before dropping them in the
          appropriate place, press and hold the<uicontrol>
            <shortcut>Ctrl</shortcut></uicontrol> key
            (<uicontrol><shortcut>Meta</shortcut></uicontrol> key on Mac). The mouse pointer changes
          to indicate that a copy operation is performed.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><uicontrol>Move</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>Select the nodes you want to move and drag and drop them in the appropriate place.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><uicontrol>Promote</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd> (<uicontrol conref="oxygen-shortcuts-list.dita#oxygen-shortcuts-list/alt_left_arrow"
            />)/<uicontrol>Demote</uicontrol> (<uicontrol
            conref="oxygen-shortcuts-list.dita#oxygen-shortcuts-list/alt_right_arrow"/>) - you can
          move nodes between child and parent nodes which ensures both
            <uicontrol>Promote</uicontrol> (<uicontrol
            conref="oxygen-shortcuts-list.dita#oxygen-shortcuts-list/alt_left_arrow"/>) and
            <uicontrol>Demote</uicontrol> (<uicontrol
            conref="oxygen-shortcuts-list.dita#oxygen-shortcuts-list/alt_right_arrow"/>)
          operations.</dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <p>Apart from the above actions, the contextual menu of the root of the map contains the
      following two options:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Open Map in Editor</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Opens the ditamap in the<uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol> view.<note>The bubble displayed
              on the <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol> tab of a DITA Map opened in the
                <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol> view is rendered blue.</note></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Open Map in Editor with resolved topics</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Opens the DITA Map in the editor view and displays the content referred by the links
            in the ditamap.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Export DITA Maps</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>All the resources referred in a DITA Map are located and exported in a directory. You
            can also choose to export the resources as an archive.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
    <note type="tip">
      <p>You can open and edit linked topics easily by double clicking the references or by
        right-clicking and choosing <uicontrol>Open in editor</uicontrol>. If the referenced file
        does not exist you are allowed to create it.</p>
      <p>By right clicking the map root element you can open and edit it in the main editor area for
        more complex operations.</p>
      <p>You can decide to open the reference directly in the Author mode and keep this setting as a
        default.</p>
    </note>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="dita-insert-topic-ref.dita"/>
    <link href="find-and-replace-text-in-files.dita" product="author editor"/>
    <link href="spell-check-in-files.dita"/>
  </related-links>
</topic>
