<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="dita_open_toolkit_project">
    <title>DITA Open Toolkit Project</title>
    <body>
        <p id="p_odd_b2b_mjb">The DITA Open Toolkit project file allows you to define all your DITA
      Map input and filter pairs and to produce the desired output formats by applying the
      publishing engine over this single project file: <xref
        href="https://www.dita-ot.org/dev/topics/using-project-files.html" format="html"
        scope="external"/>.</p>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> has special support for creating, editing, validating and publishing
      DITA Open Toolkit Project files represented in XML format. It can also use such files to
      detect connections between DITA resources in the entire project and to apply root map and
      filter pairs when editing.</p>
    </body>
  <topic id="dita_open_toolkit_project_edit">
    <title>Editing DITA Open Toolkit Project Files</title>
    <body>
      <p>The <uicontrol>File->New</uicontrol> wizard dialog allows you to create DITA Open Toolkit
        project XML files. A sample project file can be found in the application samples folder
          <filepath>OXYGEN_INSTALL_DIR/samples/dita/mobile-phone/mobilePhoneProjectFile.xml</filepath>.</p>
      <p>Content completion is done according to the associated schema and it is enhanced with
        proposals for ID references and available transformation types.</p>
      <p>The validation support has enhanced Schematron rules which report invalid references to non
        existing contexts.</p>
      <p>When working with a DITA OT Project file in the <b>Author</b> visual editing mode you can
        see by default a compact representation of the file. The <uicontrol>Styles</uicontrol> drop
        down combo box allows you to switch to the <uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol> style which gives you
        tools to edit the file using form controls and inline buttons. The additional
          <uicontrol>View as YAML</uicontrol> style allows you to see a visual representation of the
        same document in YAML.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="dita_open_toolkit_project_publish">
    <title>Publishing DITA Open Toolkit Project Files</title>
    <body>
      <p id="p_uzw_c2b_mjb">Once a DITA OT project XML file is opened in the application, the
          <uicontrol>Configure Transformation Scenario(s)</uicontrol> button allows you to access
        two predefined publishing scenarios:<ul id="ul_fwd_4x1_mjb">
          <li><uicontrol>Publish DITA-OT Project (all deliverables)</uicontrol> - Run the publishing
            engine and produce output for all deliverables defined in the project file.</li>
          <li><uicontrol>Publish DITA-OT Project (select deliverable)</uicontrol> - Run the
            publishing engine and produce output for only one deliverable specified by the end
            user.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </body>
    <topic id="dita_open_toolkit_project_master">
      <title>Master Files Support for DITA Open Toolkit Project Files </title>
      <body>
        <p>If you enable <xref href="defining_master_files.dita#defining_master_files">master files
            support at project level</xref> you can choose to detect all top level DITA Open Toolkit
          project XML files and to add them to the master files folder. You can also add manually in
          the application project master files folder the top level DITA OT Project Files for your
          project. Once you do this, all renames or moves of DITA topics, maps, filter files and
          project files performed in the Project view will properly update all references to those
          resources.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="dita_open_toolkit_project_context">
      <title>Editing Contexts Detected from DITA Open Toolkit Project Files</title>
      <body>
        <p>Once the DITA OT Project XML files are added to the Project master files folder, in the
            <uicontrol>DITA Maps Manager</uicontrol> view the <uicontrol>Context</uicontrol> combo
          box will start containing context DITA Map and filter pairs gathered from the project
          file. When such a context is selected in the combo box, the application will gather the
          keys from the context DITA Map and apply the filters specified in the context.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
</topic>
