<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="doc-rules">
  <title><?oxy_comment_start author="steven_higgs" timestamp="20151019T083709+0300" comment="Work in progress"?>Documentation
    Rules<?oxy_comment_end?></title>
  <body>
    <p>The vast amount of rules that pertain to writing in the English language can be daunting, to
      say the least. Even the most educated people who grew up in native English-speaking countries
      cannot avoid making common mistakes. There is also a difference between the ability to speak
      in coherent and grammatically correct English and the ability to write properly in English.
      Even talented writers are often not aware of many of the complex rules or they simply forget
      some of them over time. It is also important to distinguish between concrete grammar rules
      that should always be followed and style rules that are simply guidelines or choices that will
      help make documentation to be more consistent and potent. Regardless, the sheer number of
      writing rules, and their complexities, do not need to be as daunting as they appear to be,
      especially when it comes to writing technical documentation.</p>
    <p>There are a lot of distinct differences between writing various types of prose and writing
      technical documentation and many of the complicated grammar rules can be avoided entirely when
      writing the latter. As a general rule for writing technical documentation, it is important to
      keep it as simple as possible while using enough creativity and solid writing skills to keep
      the reader engaged long enough to absorb whatever information they need to satisfy the reason
      they found the particular documentation in the first place. All talented writers have
      developed their skill over the course of time by writing <i>A LOT</i>. However, following a
      set of rules and guidelines can help less experienced writers, as well as those without native
      language skills. Especially when documentation is written by multiple writers, it is important
      to have a common set of rules and guidelines to keep the documentation consistent, effective,
      and professional.</p>
    <p>The rules and guidelines presented in this topic are meant to help maintain a high level of
      consistency, effectiveness, and accuracy within the documentation for <ph keyref="product"/>. </p>
    <section><title>Grammar Rules</title>This section includes some common concrete grammar rules
      that should always be followed when writing documentation.<p>
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Common Grammar Errors</dt>
            <dd>The following grammar errors are some of the most common mistakes that are made
              while writing in general:<dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Incomplete Comparisons</dt>
                  <dd><b>Mistake:</b>… ie. "Our software is better, more powerful, and efficient." …
                    than what?</dd>
                  <dd><b>Examples:</b>...</dd>
                  <dd><b>Solution:</b>...</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Dangling Modifiers</dt>
                  <dd><b>Mistake:</b>...</dd>
                  <dd><b>Examples:</b>...</dd>
                  <dd><b>Solution:</b> ...</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Vague Pronouns</dt>
                  <dd><b>Mistake:</b>...</dd>
                  <dd><b>Examples:</b>...</dd>
                  <dd><b>Solution:</b> ...</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Sentence Fragments</dt>
                  <dd><b>Mistake:</b>...</dd>
                  <dd><b>Examples:</b>...</dd>
                  <dd><b>Solution:</b> ...</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Conjunctive Adverbs</dt>
                  <dd><b>Mistake:</b>...often can move almost anywhere in a sentence and they are
                    often used as transitions between sentences, but they are not conjunctions and
                    cannot be used to join two sentences.</dd>
                  <dd><b>Examples:</b>...</dd>
                  <dd><b>Solution:</b> ...</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Misusing Homonyms</dt>
                  <dd><b>Mistake:</b>...Spell checkers are absolutely useless for detecting misused
                    homonyms</dd>
                  <dd><b>Examples:</b>… Affect/Effect, Illicit/Elicit, Complement/Compliment,
                    Obtain/Attain, Personal/Personnel, Suit/Suite, Principal/Principle</dd>
                  <dd><b>Solution:</b> ...If you are not completely sure about the difference
                    between certain homonyms, avoid using those words entirely.</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Specific Grammar Rules in Regards to Specific Words or Phrases</dt>
            <dd>The following grammar rules are meant to distinguish when and how to use specific
              words or which form of a word to use in particular situations:<dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><b>"a"</b> vs. <b>"an"</b></dt>
                  <dd>REMEMBER, it is how the subsequent word SOUNDS, not how it is written. The
                    rule is that you use "a" before words that start with a consonant SOUND and "an"
                    before words that start with a vowel SOUND. The letters 'H' and 'U' usually
                    cause the most confusion. Examples: 'Unique' or 'URL'- You would use 'a' before
                    both words because they both begin with a 'you' SOUND. On the other hand,
                    'Unusual'- You would use 'an' before this word because it begins with an 'uh'
                    SOUND. 'Hour'- You would use 'an' because it begins with an 'a-wer' SOUND.
                    'HTTP'- Also use 'an' because it begins with an 'aye' SOUND. 'Honorable' begins
                    with an 'o' SOUND. Conversely, 'Historic' would need 'a' in front because it
                    begins with a "h" SOUND.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><b>"That"</b> vs. <b>"Which"</b></dt>
                  <dd>… it is debatable as to whether this is a grammar rule or a matter of style
                    choice, but regardless, in most cases it looks and sounds much better to use the
                    common grammar rule that most people follow. To make a complex topic as simple
                    as possible, follow this rule- use "that" before a restrictive clause and
                    "which" before nonrestrictive clauses. A 'restrictive clause' is just part of a
                    sentence that you can not get rid of because it specifically restricts some
                    other part of the sentence. Here is an example of a 'restrictive clause': Gems
                    that sparkle often elicit forgiveness. The words "that sparkle" restrict the
                    kind of gems you are talking about. Without them, the meaning of the sentence
                    would change. A 'nonrestrictive clause' is something that can be left off
                    without changing the meaning of the sentence (simply additional information).
                    Here is an example of a 'nonrestrictive clause': Diamonds, which are a type of
                    gem, often elicit forgiveness. Alas, diamonds are always a type of gem so
                    leaving out the words "which are a type of gem" does not change the meaning of
                    the sentence. (Also note that the phrase is surrounded by commas. Nonrestrictive
                    clauses are usually surrounded by, or preceded by, commas.)</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><b>"To either"</b> vs. <b>"Either to"</b></dt>
                  <dd>As a general rule, it is better to use "to either"... (example 1: We could go
                    "to either" Greece or Italy. Example 2: We could go "either to" Greece or
                    Italy.) When speaking, both phrases are acceptable. However, when writing,
                    example 1 ("to either") is more grammatically correct. The word "either" implies
                    a choice of two options and by placing the 'to' in front you are removing it
                    from the construction (either A or B). To use example 2 ("either to") you would
                    need to write: "We could go either to Greece or to Italy."</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><b>"Also"</b></dt>
                  <dd>Using the word 'also' can become very complicated in English grammar. USUALLY,
                    you will place 'also' before the verb or between what is called a modal verb
                    (i.e. can, should, must, might, could) and a normal verb (an example with one
                    normal verb: "He also speaks Romanian"; an example with a modal verb in front of
                    a normal verb: "He can also speak Romanian"). Notice that you do not place the
                    'also' after the verb 'speak'. That is grammatically incorrect. There are many
                    exceptions and sometimes you need to be aware that the placement of the word
                    'also' can change the meaning of a sentence (for example, "I will also go to
                    Greece" implies that I will go to Greece along with some other place, while "I
                    also will go to Greece" implies that I will go to Greece along with someone
                    else). One common exception: Typically, you will only place 'also' after a verb
                    if it is a simple sentence and the verb is a form of the verb 'to be' (for
                    example: "He is also Romanian"). Example from the website: "If you rename a
                    folder you can also update the references to the resources from that folder."
                    Originally, the 'also' was placed after 'update', which is incorrect. NOTE:
                    Sometimes it is more appropriate to avoid separating clauses, in which case it
                    is best to begin the sentence with 'Also,' (it should always be followed by a
                    comma in this situation). This places the 'also' completely outside the idea or
                    clause.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><b>"Such as"</b> vs. <b>"Like"</b></dt>
                  <dd>In most cases avoid using 'like' when you can use 'such as' instead. "Like"
                    suggests comparison (being similar to something) while "such as" suggests
                    inclusion (and example of). Example: "You can specify a set of transformation
                    scenarios to convert the XML documents to various formats, such as HTML and
                    PDF." You cannot use 'like' instead of such as because you are not comparing
                    formats to HTML or PDF. You are including them as examples. Here is an example
                    'like' is used properly: "Your documentation might include a sentence like the
                    one in the following example:". You can use the word 'like' in this case because
                    it is implying that the hypothetical "sentence" is similar to the one in the
                    example that follows.   </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><b>Affect</b> vs. <b>Effect</b></dt>
                  <dd>...</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><b>Less</b> vs. <b>Fewer</b></dt>
                  <dd>...</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><b>Between</b> vs. <b>Among</b></dt>
                  <dd>...</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><b>Different</b></dt>
                  <dd>...</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><b>However</b> vs. <b>Never the less</b></dt>
                  <dd>...</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><b>However</b> vs. <b>But</b></dt>
                  <dd>...</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Tenses</dt>
            <dd>There are a lot of very complicated rules when it comes to using tenses in English
              writing. The proper use of tenses is important because improper use could lead to
              ambiguity and the intended meaning can be inadvertently changed if the wrong tense is
              used. Without making it more complicated than it needs to be, the following rules are
              simply guidelines for using tenses to help avoid glaring mistakes:<dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Consistency in Tenses</dt>
                  <dd>… Verbs that shift from one tense to another with no clear reason can confuse
                    readers.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Future Tense</dt>
                  <dd>Avoid future tense, if possible, unless you are referring to something that
                    will specifically happen in the future and cannot use present tense in the
                    specific context</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Progressive Tense</dt>
                  <dd>Be care careful with progressive tenses. For example, it is better to use
                    'changes' instead of 'changing' in the following context: "oXygen changes the
                    way you edit documents" rather than "oXygen is changing the way you edit
                    documents"</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Punctuation Rules</dt>
            <dd>Some punctuation rules are really just style choices (see the <xref
                href="#./punctuation-style-rules-section" format="dita"><i>Punctuation Rules</i> in
                the <i>Style Rules</i> section</xref>), although there are some concrete grammar
              rules in regards to punctuation. This section includes some of those concrete rules:<dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Commas</dt>
                  <dd>Numerous examples of when...  ex. inside quotations.   … No comma is needed
                    before the word and because it joins two phrases that modify the same
                    verb,applies.  … A nonrestrictive element gives information not essential to the
                    basic meaning of the sentence. Use commas to set off a nonrestrictive
                    element.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Comma Before Conjunctions That Introduce an Independent Clause</dt>
                  <dd>...</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Commas Before and After Parenthetical Expressions</dt>
                  <dd>...</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Common Grammar Rule Myths or Misperceptions</dt>
            <dd>Some English grammar rules are ambiguous and debatable. Various grammar guides and
              experts sometimes differ when it comes to certain rules. Most experts come to a common
              consensus in regards to many of these ambiguous rules, while others simply become
              style choices when there does not seem to be a common opinion. Some of these
              complicated rules have also evolved or changed over time and can therefore become
                misperceptions.<p>This section includes some of the most common misperceptions in
                regards to grammar rules:</p><dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Misperception: Do not start a sentence with conjunctions (...and, but, so,
                    if)</dt>
                  <dd>...and/but - technically, it is ok, but it could lead to an incomplete
                    sentence and it can also sound quite monotonous. Therefore, it becomes a style
                    choice … but in most cases is followed by comma</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Misperception: Do not start a sentence with adverbs, (such as 'Also' or
                    'However')</dt>
                  <dd>…much debated... becomes a style choice... it's ok but follow with a comma …
                    conjunctive adverbs often can move almost anywhere in a sentence</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Misperception: Do not end a sentence with a preposition</dt>
                  <dd>There is simply more to it than that. The rule is really that you should not
                    end a sentence with a preposition when the sentence would mean the same thing if
                    you left off the preposition. Based upon the entire rule, there are instances
                    where it is better to end a sentence with a preposition.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Misperception: Do not split infinitives</dt>
                  <dd>There is actually nothing wrong with splitting infinitives, although in
                    technical writing it often means that you are adding an unnecessary word.
                    However, there are quite a few instances where using split infinitives add
                    meaning to a sentence. For example, "to better understand".</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Misperception: Paragraphs must include more than one sentence</dt>
                  <dd>A paragraph can be a single sentence. There is no rule against it and if you
                    can say what you need to say in a single sentence that lacks a direct connection
                    with other sentences, it is better to stop there and go to a new paragraph.</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl></dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p></section>
    <section><title>Writing Rules/Suggestions</title>The writing rules listed in this section are
      more suggestions than concrete rules, but they are important to make documentation clear,
      concise, effective, absorbing, and comprehensible.<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Good Documentation Requires Editing</dt>
          <dd>If you <i>really</i> want to produce great documentation, it needs to be edited. No
            matter how talented a writer happens to be, it is nearly impossible to avoid mistakes on
            the first attempt. It is also a good idea to have someone else review your documentation
            because when you read something you wrote yourself, you know what you <i>meant</i> to
            write, so it is really easy to just skip over typos or missing words. If you are editing
            your own work, changing the indent structure or font size can help you recognize
            mistakes that were previously unnoticed.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Basic Writing Rules</dt>
          <dd>The following rules are suggestions in regards to general writing standards: <dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Redundancy</dt>
                <dd>Avoid ...</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Topic Structure</dt>
                <dd>… flow … intro … specific content … conclusion (if appropriate)</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Paragraph Structure</dt>
                <dd>Opening intro sentence … keep short as possible without...</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Transitions</dt>
                <dd>...each paragraph should transition smoothly from the preceding paragraph.
                  Without good transitions, the reader will end up backtracking repeatedly</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Complete Sentences</dt>
                <dd>
                  <p>Except in extraordinary circumstances, sentences should always be complete.</p>
                </dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Possession</dt>
                <dd>Avoid if possible...</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Subordinating Conjunctions</dt>
                <dd>Avoid ...</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Passive Voice</dt>
                <dd>...</dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Basic Technical Writing Rules</dt>
          <dd>The following rules are suggestions in regards to technical writing standards:<dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Consistency</dt>
                <dd>...</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Ambiguity</dt>
                <dd>
                  <p> "this", "these", "it"   Even if the item to which you refer is explicitly
                    mentioned in your paper, ask yourself whether there is any chance that the
                    reader might not know to which of several items you might be referring.</p>
                </dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Teach</dt>
                <dd>Teach or guide ...</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Audience</dt>
                <dd>we to include... know your audience... identify who its for and what they need
                  to know</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Make Important Content Noticeable</dt>
                <dd>Use various structural elements to make the topics more visually appealing and
                  readable … contrast...labels...use concrete language</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Sections</dt>
                <dd>...</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Use Structure for Procedural or Task-Related Information</dt>
                <dd>...Do not bury task-related information (how to...) within dense paragraphs</dd>
                <dd>
                  <p><b>Guidelines for documenting procedures:</b><ul>
                      <li>Use titles</li>
                      <li>Each step should be an action in sequence</li>
                      <li>Eliminate steps that lack action. Put info outside the list...</li>
                      <li>Use OL when the steps must occur in a sequence</li>
                      <li>Put the LI is proper order</li>
                      <li>Use sub-steps rather than putting too many tasks within one step</li>
                      <li>Identify optional steps</li>
                      <li>Identify conditional steps with 'If'</li>
                      <li>Use UL within the list for branching steps - alternative methods</li>
                      <li>Edit and rewrite ambiguous steps</li>
                    </ul></p>
                </dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Contractions</dt>
                <dd>Avoid … Contractions are appropriate only for conversational use and for
                  informal writing, but never for technical writing.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Avoid Unnecessary Words</dt>
                <dd>… "in order to"</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Avoid Qualifiers</dt>
                <dd>… Rather, very, little, pretty</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Avoid <i>Fancy</i> Words</dt>
                <dd>...</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Avoid Using Figures of Speech</dt>
                <dd>...</dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></section>
    <section><title>Style Rules</title>Style rules are not concrete rules. Instead, they are style
      choices. There are no concrete right or wrong ways to choose style rules. However, it is
      important to be consistent with style choices to make documentation readable and appealing.
      You certainly do not want to irritate your audience by using multiple, inconsistent and
      incompatible styles.<p>To maintain consistency and visually appealing documentation, the
          <i>Style Rules</i> that we will use for the <ph keyref="product"/> User Guide includes the
        following:</p><dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>General Style Rules</dt>
          <dd>The following <i>Style Rules</i> provide guidelines for general documentation style choices:<dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>American vs. British English</dt>
                <dd>There are some words that are spelled differently in these two forms of English.
                  It is certainly acceptable to use either convention as long as you are consistent.
                  Since we have more customers in North America than in the Great Britain, we will
                  always use American English for our documentation.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Titles/Headings</dt>
                <dd>Capitalize all nouns, verbs, and any other words that are more than 3 letters
                  (Exception: do not capitalize prepositions "from", "with", "like", "over", "into"
                  or the conjunction "that"). Do not capitalize other words that are 3 letters or
                  less unless it is at the beginning of the title/heading, or if it is an acronym.
                  Do not capitalize: a, an, and, as, at, but, by, for, in, it, of, nor, on, or, the,
                  to, up (Exceptions: do not capitalize specific names of elements, attributes, etc.
                  [use italics even in titles]; when listing company names or products in titles use
                  the same capitalization format that they use)</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Titles with hyphens</dt>
                <dd>Always capitalize the word before the hyphen, and also the words after the
                  hyphen, except for articles (a, an, the), short prepositions (at, by, from, into,
                  like, on, to, via, etc.) and short conjunctions (and, but, for, nor, or, that,
                  etc.) (Exceptions: same as above)</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Bullet points</dt>
                <dd>In general, do not use punctuation at the end of a bullet point (Use numbered
                  lists if punctuation at the end is desired). The specific rule is that you should
                  not include punctuation at the end of a bullet point unless it is a complete
                  sentence (but even then it is not necessary). If multiple sentences are necessary
                  within a single bullet, then you SHOULD use punctuation, but perhaps you can use a
                  number list instead.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Plural Acronyms</dt>
                <dd>You do not need an 's' at the end for plural acronyms (i.e. 'CMS' rather than
                  'CMSs')</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Terms</dt>
                <dd>Use term for names of ...</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Company or Product Names</dt>
                <dd>When listing company names or products use the same capitalization format that
                  they use</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Parentheses</dt>
                <dd>Typically, you should not place text surrounded by brackets outside
                  sentences</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Parentheses vs. Hyphens</dt>
                <dd>Use brackets instead of hyphens to offer examples of something, descriptions of
                  acronyms, etc. Example: Use "XSL FO (Formatting Objects) Editor" instead of "XSL
                  FO - Formatting Objects - Editor"</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Time Zones</dt>
                <dd>When referring to time zones in North America use the 2 letter abbreviation (ET
                  for Eastern Time). Do NOT use the 3 letter abbreviation (for example, EDT or EST)
                  to avoid causing confusion or listing an inaccurate time.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Icons</dt>
                <dd>When using icons before the name of actions do not add a space between the icon
                  and the action name</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Images</dt>
                <dd>when?</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Numbers</dt>
                <dd>...</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Acceptable Conjunctions for Starting a Sentence</dt>
                <dd>and/but - no   So/if- ok</dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Use of Specific Words (Style Rules)</dt>
          <dd>The following <i>Style Rules</i> provide guidelines for the use of particular words:<dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><b>Schema</b> (plural)</dt>
                <dd>Use 'Schemas' instead of 'Schemata' for plural</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><b>Combo Box</b></dt>
                <dd>Use 'combo box' rather than 'combobox'</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><b>Includes</b> vs. <b>Comes with</b></dt>
                <dd>Use 'includes' instead of 'comes with' (for example, "oXygen includes a
                  user-friendly interface...")</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><b>Cursor</b> vs. <b>Caret</b></dt>
                <dd>Use 'cursor' when referring to the HOVERING cursor and 'caret' when referring to
                  the actual placement of the caret</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><b>Multiple</b> vs. <b>More than one</b></dt>
                <dd>Use 'multiple' instead of 'more than one'</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><b>You</b> vs. <b>One</b></dt>
                <dd>Use 'you' rather than an impersonal 'one'</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><b>They</b> vs. <b>He/She</b></dt>
                <dd>Use 'they' rather than 'he/she'</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><b>Authors</b> vs. <b>Writers</b></dt>
                <dd>Use 'authors' instead of 'writers', or 'content authors' instead of 'technical
                  writers' for our documentation.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><b>Following</b> vs. <b>Next</b></dt>
                <dd>Use 'following' or 'subsequent' instead of 'next' (for example, "In the
                  following image..." rather than "In the next image...")</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><b>Dialog Box</b></dt>
                <dd>Use 'dialog box' instead of just 'dialog'</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><b>Drop-down list</b></dt>
                <dd>Use 'drop-down list' or 'drop-down menu' for composite buttons</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><b>"etc."</b></dt>
                <dd>Typically, only use 'etc.' inside brackets. Example: "(XML parser, XSLT
                  transformer, XQuery engine, etc.)"</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><b>"i.e.</b> vs. <b>e.g.</b></dt>
                <dd>...</dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl><dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>oXygen Related Naming Convention Rules</dt>
          <dd>The following <i>Style Rules</i> provide guidelines for using oXygen-related names and components:<dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Product:</dt>
                <dd>Use the product element instead of various forms of Oxygen unless it is a link,
                  legal reference, or a tag that does not allow the insertion of a product
                  element.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>UI Names</dt>
                <dd>Use uicontrol for specific names of UI or XML related names (i.e. actions,
                  preference options, attributes, elements, tags, etc.)</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Ellipses in UI Names</dt>
                <dd>Do not use elipses when naming a specific ui control action if it has elipses in
                  its name</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Syncro</dt>
                <dd>Syncro Soft: Use 'Syncro Soft' unless Syncro is defined as 'Syncro Soft' in the
                  document.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Content Completion</dt>
                <dd>Use 'Content Completion Assistant' for specific references to this tool, or
                  'content completion assistance' for a general reference to the subject.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Editing Modes</dt>
                <dd>When referring to the editing modes use 'Grid editor mode', 'Text editor mode',
                  'Author mode', 'Design mode' (or Grid editing mode, etc.) and bold the words
                  'Grid', 'Text', 'Author', 'Design' </dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="punctuation-style-rules-section">
          <dt>Punctuation Style Rules</dt>
          <dd>The following <i>Style Rules</i> pertain to punctuation:<dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Serial Commas</dt>
                <dd>Use a serial comma for 3 or more sentence elements. Do not use a serial comma
                  for 2 elements. In many cases, omitting the serial comma is ambiguous. Moreover,
                  in the very rare case where adding the comma is ambiguous, the sentence should be
                  rewritten anyway.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Inside Brackets (parenthesis)</dt>
                <dd>Only place a full stop or comma inside the end bracket if whatever is inside the
                  bracket would require it even if it was not inside brackets. Here is an example
                  from the website where the first set of brackets correctly has the full stop
                  inside and the second set correctly has the full stop outside the brackets. ...and
                  special debugging views (Context, Call Stack, Trace History, XPath Watch,
                  Variables, etc.) All debugger capabilities are provided (step into, step over,
                  step out, run, run to cursor, run to end, pause, stop).</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Hyphenate</dt>
                <dd>pop-up, drop-down, as-you-type, ready-to-use (when used as an adjective or noun
                  ... however, do not hyphenate when used like this 'the product comes ready to
                  use...'), user-friendly, built-in, pretty-print, read-only, open-source, co-exist,
                  built-in, right-click, left-click, double-click</dd>
                <dd>Do not hyphenate: plugin, screenshot, checkbox</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Semi-Colons</dt>
                <dd>Avoid...</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Exclamation Marks</dt>
                <dd>Not necessary in UG</dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></section>
  </body>
</topic>
