<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="docbook-pdf-output-customization">
  <title>DocBook to PDF Output Customization</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Transformation Scenarios<indexterm>DocBook 4 to PDF</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Transformation Scenarios<indexterm>DocBook 5 to PDF</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>DocBook to PDF transformation</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <taskbody>
    <context>
      <p>When the default layout and output of the DocBook to PDF transformation needs to be
        customized, follow these steps:</p>
    </context>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Create a custom version of the DocBook title spec file.</cmd>
        <info>
          <p>You should start from a copy of the file <filepath><term
                conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
              />/frameworks/docbook/xsl/fo/titlepage.templates.xml</filepath> and customize it. The
            instructions for the spec file can be found <xref
              href="http://www.sagehill.net/docbookxsl/TitlePagePrint.html#PrintTitlepageSpecfile"
              format="html" scope="external">here.</xref>
          </p>
          <p>An example of spec file:</p>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;t:titlepage-content t:side="recto"&gt;
    &lt;mediaobject/&gt;
    &lt;title
        t:named-template="book.verso.title"
        font-size="&amp;hsize2;"
        font-weight="bold"
        font-family="{$title.font.family}"/&gt;
    &lt;corpauthor/&gt;
      ...
&lt;/t:titlepage-content&gt;</codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Generate a new XSLT stylesheet from the title spec file from the previous step.</cmd>
        <info>Apply <filepath><term conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
            />/frameworks/docbook/xsl/template/titlepage.xsl</filepath> to the title spec file. The
          result is an XSLT stylesheet (for example, <filepath>mytitlepages.xsl</filepath>).</info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Import <filepath>mytitlepages.xsl</filepath> in a <xref
            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/demo/DocBook_Customization.html" format="html"
            scope="external">DocBook customization layer</xref>.</cmd>
        <info>The customization layer is the stylesheet that will be applied to the XML document.
          The <filepath>mytitlepages.xsl</filepath> should be imported with an element like
          this:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;xsl:import href="dir-name/mytitlepages.xsl"/&gt;</codeblock></info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Insert a logo image in the XML document.</cmd>
        <info>The path to the logo image must be inserted in the
            <codeph>book/info/mediaobject</codeph> element of the XML document.</info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Apply the customization layer to the XML document.</cmd>
        <info>A quick way is to duplicate the transformation scenario <b>DocBook PDF</b> that is
          included with <ph keyref="product"/> and set the customization layer in <xref
            href="xslt-tab.dita#xslt-tab/xml-xslt-tabs">the <b>XSL URL</b> property of the
            scenario</xref>.</info>
      </step>
    </steps>
  </taskbody>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="http://www.sagehill.net/docbookxsl/PrintCustomEx.html" format="html"
        scope="external">
        <linktext>The book <b>DocBook XSL: The Complete Guide</b> by Bob Stayton contains more
          details about customizing the PDF output.</linktext>
      </link>
      <link href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/demo/DocBook_Customization.html" format="html"
        scope="external">
        <linktext>Video demonstration for creating a DocBook customization layer in <ph
            keyref="product"/>.</linktext>
      </link>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</task>
