<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="docbook-checker-addon">
  <title>DocBook Checker Add-on</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Add-ons<indexterm>DocBook checker</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>DocBook checker add-on</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_ywg_dgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> offers an add-on that allows you to validate DocBook files. It reports
      issues such as broken internal and external links, problems with images, or profiling
      conditions that conflict with profiling preferences.</p>
    <p id="p_zwg_dgk_54b">To install the add-on, follow these instructions:<ol id="ol_axg_dgk_54b">
        <li id="li_bxg_dgk_54b">Go to <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Install new add-ons</uicontrol>
          </menucascade> to open an add-on selection dialog box.</li>
        <li id="li_cxg_dgk_54b">Enter or paste <b>https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Addons/default/updateSite.xml</b>
          in the <uicontrol>Show add-ons from</uicontrol> field or select it from the drop-down
          menu.</li>
        <li id="li_dxg_dgk_54b">Select the <b>DocBook Checker</b> add-on and click <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol>.</li>
        <li id="li_exg_dgk_54b">Read the end-user license agreement. Then select the <uicontrol>I accept all terms of
        the end-user license agreement</uicontrol> option and click <uicontrol>Finish</uicontrol>.</li>
        <li id="li_fxg_dgk_54b">Restart the application.</li>
      </ol></p>
    <p id="p_gxg_dgk_54b"><b>Result:</b> A <uicontrol>Check DocBook for Completeness</uicontrol> action will now be
      available on the toolbar and in the contextual menu. This action opens a dialog box that
      offers various validation options for running a completeness check on the current DocBook
      document.</p>
    <p id="p_hxg_dgk_54b">For more information, see the <xref
        href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/docbook-validate-check-completeness" format="html"
        scope="external">details for this <b>DocBook Checker</b> add-on in GitHub</xref>.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
