<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="docbook-webhelp-plugin">
  <title>DocBook to WebHelp Script</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>DocBook</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>The <ph keyref="product"></ph> comes bundled with a script file that can be used to transform
      DocBook documents to <b>WebHelp Classic</b> output outside of <b>Oxygen XML
        Editor/Author</b>.<note type="important"
        product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
        id="note-command-line">Running DocBook to WebHelp transformations from a script outside of
          <b>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</b> requires an additional license and some additional setup:<ul>
          <li>You must have a valid license for the <b>Oxygen XML WebHelp Plugin</b> (<xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/buy_webhelp.html" format="html" scope="external"
            ></xref>).</li>
          <li>The <b>Oxygen XML WebHelp Plugin</b> must be installed and integrated for <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-webhelp/topics/wh-docbook-getting-started.html"
              format="html" scope="external">a DocBook XSL Distribution</xref>.</li>
        </ul></note></p>
    <p>To run a DocBook to WebHelp transformation outside of <b>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</b>, use
      the following script file:<ul>
        <li><b>Windows</b> - <filepath><term conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
            ></term>\frameworks\docbook\xsl\com.oxygenxml.webhelp.classic\docbook.bat</filepath></li>
        <li><b>Linux/Mac OS X</b> - <filepath><term conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
            ></term>/frameworks/docbook/xsl/com.oxygenxml.webhelp.classic/docbook.sh</filepath></li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>Before running the script to generate output, you must customize it to specify various paths
      and transformation type. To do this, open the script file and edit the following variables:<ul>
        <li><b>JVM_INSTALL_DIR</b> - Specifies the path to the Java Virtual Machine installation
          directory on your disk.</li>
        <li><b>ANT_INSTALL_DIR</b> - Specifies the path to the installation directory of Ant.</li>
        <li><b>SAXON_6_DIR</b> - Specifies the path to the installation directory of Saxon
          6.5.5.</li>
        <li><b>SAXON_9_DIR</b> - Specifies the path to the installation directory of Saxon
          9.1.0.8.</li>
        <li><b>DOCBOOK_XSL_DIR</b> - Specifies the path to the installation directory of the DocBook
          XSL distribution.</li>
        <li><b>TRANSTYPE</b> - Specifies the type of the transformation you want to apply. The <ph
            keyref="product"></ph> contributes the following transformation types for DocBook:<ul
            id="webhelp-plugin-outputs">
              <li conkeyref="reusables-transforming-documents/webhelp-classic"></li>
              <li conkeyref="reusables-transforming-documents/webhelp-classic-feedback"></li>
          </ul></li>
        <li><b>INPUT_DIR</b> - Specifies the path to the input directory, containing the input XML
          file.</li>
        <li><b>XML_INPUT_FILE</b> - Specifies the name of the input XML file.</li>
        <li><b>OUTPUT_DIR</b> - Specifies the path to the output directory where the transformation
          output is generated.</li>
        <li><b>DOCBOOK_XSL_DIR_URL</b> - Specifies the path to the directory of the DocBook XSL
          distribution in URL format.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>You can also add <xref
        href="webhelp-plugin-additional-parameters-docbook.dita#webhelp-plugin-additional-parameters-docbook"
        >additional configuration parameters that are contributed by the <ph keyref="product"
        ></ph></xref>.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
