<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept id="document-plugin">
  <title>Document Plugin Extension</title>
  <shortdesc>This type of <xref keyref="glossentry_plugin"><term>plugin</term></xref> allows you to
    manage the current document.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Plugin extensions<indexterm>Document</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Document plugin extension</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <p id="p_b52_dgk_54b">The <b>document</b>
      <term>plugin</term> type can only be applied to an XML document. It can modify the current
      document that is received as a callback parameter.</p>
    <p id="p_c52_dgk_54b">The <term>plugin</term> is started by selecting the corresponding menu item from the
        <uicontrol>Plugins</uicontrol> submenu in the contextual menu of <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol>
      mode. It provides the following API:</p>
    <p id="p_d52_dgk_54b">
      <dl id="dl_e52_dgk_54b">
        <dlentry id="dlentry_f52_dgk_54b">
          <dt><b><term>DocumentPluginExtension</term> interface</b></dt>
          <dd>Receives the context object containing the current document. The
              <term>process(GeneralPluginContext)</term> method can return a
              <term>DocumentPluginResult</term> object containing a new document.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_g52_dgk_54b">
          <dt><b><term>DocumentPluginContext</term> object</b></dt>
          <dd>Represents the context and provides three methods: <ul id="ul_h52_dgk_54b">
              <li id="li_i52_dgk_54b"><b>getDocument()</b> - Returns a <codeph>javax.swing.text.Document</codeph> object
                that represents the current document.</li>
              <li id="li_j52_dgk_54b"><b>getFrame()</b> - Returns a <codeph>java.awt.Frame</codeph> object that
                represents the editing frame.</li>
              <li id="li_k52_dgk_54b"><b>getPluginWorkspace()</b> - Returns access to the workspace of <ph
                  keyref="product"/>.</li>
            </ul></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
  </conbody>
</concept>
