<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="api_faq_eclipse_custom_view">
  <title>Extension points for the <ph keyref="product"/></title>
  <body>
    <p>The <ph keyref="product"/> has a number of extension points which can be implemented by other
      Eclipse plugins which depend on it. All of them are listed in the
        <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath> along with sample usage code. Below is a list with short
      descriptions for the most useful ones:</p>
    <section>
      <title>Extension point <term>ditaKeyDefinitionManager</term></title>
      <p>It can be used to provide an external keys manager responsible of providing DITA keys which
        are then used for editing and resolving referenced content. Its <filepath>EXSD</filepath>
        schema can be found in:
          <filepath>OXYGEN_PLUGIN_DIR/exsd-schema/ditaKeyDefinitionManager.exsd</filepath>.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Extension point <term>actionBarContributorCustomizer</term></title>
      <p>A very useful extension point which can add or remove actions from various menus,
        contextual menus and toolbars contributed by the <ph keyref="product"/>. Its
          <filepath>EXSD</filepath> schema can be found in:
          <filepath>OXYGEN_PLUGIN_DIR/exsd-schema/actionBarContributorCustomizer.exsd</filepath>.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Extension point <term>customEditorInputCreator</term></title>
      <p>Create your custom editor input for a certain resource which will be opened by the <ph
          keyref="product"/> when clicking links. Its <filepath>EXSD</filepath> schema can be found
        in: <filepath>OXYGEN_PLUGIN_DIR/exsd-schema/customEditorInputCreator.exsd</filepath>.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Extension point <term>editorAdapterContributor</term></title>
      <p>When an adapter is requested to the opened XML editor you can provide your custom adapter
        from your external plugin. Its <filepath>EXSD</filepath> schema can be found in:
          <filepath>OXYGEN_PLUGIN_DIR/exsd-schema/editorAdapterContributor.exsd</filepath>.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Extension point <term>extensionsBundleContributor</term></title>
      <p>Provide your own <apiname>ExtensionsBundle</apiname> implementation for a certain opened
        XML resource. Its <filepath>EXSD</filepath> schema can be found in:
          <filepath>OXYGEN_PLUGIN_DIR/exsd-schema/extensionsBundleContributor.exsd</filepath>.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Extension point <term>stylesFilterContributor</term></title>
      <p>Provide your own <apiname>StylesFilter</apiname> implementation for special visual
        rendering when an XML resource opened in the <b>Author</b> editing mode. Its
          <filepath>EXSD</filepath> schema can be found in:
          <filepath>OXYGEN_PLUGIN_DIR/exsd-schema/stylesFilterContributor.exsd</filepath>.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Extension point <term>XMLRefactoringContributor</term></title>
      <p>Contribute a folder which contains additional XQuery scripts which can be used by the batch
        XML refactoring actions. Its <filepath>EXSD</filepath> schema can be found in:
          <filepath>OXYGEN_PLUGIN_DIR/exsd-schema/xmlRefactoringContributor.exsd</filepath>.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
