<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="editing-xml-schema-master-files-context">
  <title>Editing XML Schema in the Master Files Context</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Editing XML Schemas<indexterm>contextual editing</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>Smaller interrelated modules that define a complex XML Schema cannot be correctly edited or
      validated individually, due to their interdependency with other modules. For example, an
      element defined in a main schema document is not visible when you edit an included module. <ph
        keyref="product"/> provides the support for defining the main module (or modules), thus
      allowing you to edit any of the imported/included schema files in the context of the larger
      schema structure.</p>
    <p>You cat set a main XML document <ph>either using the <xref
          href="defining_master_files.dita#defining_master_files">master files support from the
            <uicontrol product="developer editor">Project</uicontrol><uicontrol
            product="developerEclipse editorEclipse">Navigator</uicontrol> view</xref>, or</ph>
      using a validation scenario.</p>
    <p>To set a main file using a validation scenario, add validation units that point to the main
      schemas. <ph keyref="product"/> warns you if the current module is not part of the
      dependencies graph computed for the main schema. In this case, it considers the current module
      as the main schema.</p>
    <p>The advantages of editing in the context of main file include:<ul>
        <li>correct validation of a module in the context of a larger schema structure; </li>
        <li><uicontrol>Content Completion Assistant</uicontrol> displays all the referable
          components valid in the current context. This include components defined in modules other
          than the currently edited one;</li>
        <li>the <uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol> displays the components collected from the entire
          schema structure;</li>
      </ul></p>
  </body>
</topic>
