<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="edit-xhtml-documents">
  <title>Editing XHTML Documents</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>XHTML documents<indexterm>Editing features</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> provides support for editing XHTML files. <ph keyref="product"/>
      includes XHTML catalogs and document templates to help you get started. You can also find a
      sample file in the <filepath><term conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
        />/samples/xhtml</filepath> folder.</p>
    <p>The XHTML editing features include:<ul>
        <li><b>Source Editing</b> - You can edit XHTML files in the <xref
            href="xml-editor-specific-actions.dita#xml-editor-specific-actions"
              ><uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> editing mode</xref> (XML source editor) using all of its
            <xref href="xml-editor-specific-actions.dita#xml-editor-specific-actions">useful
            features</xref>.</li>
        <li product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse"><b>Visual Editing</b> - You can edit
          XHTML files in the <xref
            href="editing-xml-documents-author.dita#editing-xml-documents-author">visual
              <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> editing mode</xref> using all of its <xref
            href="editing-xml-documents-author.dita#editing-xml-documents-author">authoring
            features</xref>.</li>
        <li><b>Validation</b> - Easily identify errors and their location with the <ph
            keyref="product"/>
          <xref href="validating-XML-documents.dita#validating-XML-documents">XML validation
            features</xref>.</li>
        <li><b>Content Completion</b> - The <xref keyref="glossentry_content-completion-assistant"
              ><term>Content Completion Assistant</term></xref> displays a list of context-sensitive
          proposals that are valid at the current cursor position. In <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol>
          mode, it can be manually activated with the <uicontrol
            conkeyref="reusable-oxygen-shortcuts-list/ctrl_space"/> shortcut, while in
            <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode, it is activated by simply pressing
              <uicontrol><shortcut>Enter</shortcut></uicontrol>.</li>
        <li><b>Import HTML as XHTML</b> - <ph keyref="product"/> includes support for <xref
            href="import-html.dita#import-html">importing HTML files as an XML document</xref>.</li>
        <li><b>Remote Editing</b> - <ph keyref="product"/> has built-in support for <xref
            href="opening-saving-ftp-webdav.dita#opening-saving-ftp-webdav">editing documents that
            are stored on remote servers through FTP, SFTP, and WebDAV protocols</xref>, allowing
          you to edit XHTML pages from your web server.</li>
        <li><b>Syntax Highlighting</b> - XHTML documents with embedded CSS, JS, PHP, and JSP scripts
          are rendered with dedicated coloring schemes. To customize them, <ph
            conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <xref
            href="preferences-colors-sh.dita#preferences-colors-sh"><menucascade>
              <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Syntax Highlight</uicontrol>
            </menucascade></xref>. Select and expand the <uicontrol>XHTML</uicontrol> section in the
          top pane and you can see the effects of your changes in the <uicontrol>Preview</uicontrol>
          pane.</li>
        <li><b>Print Ready CSS Style</b> - You can select <uicontrol>+Print ready</uicontrol> from
          the <uicontrol>Styles</uicontrol> toolbar drop-down menu to render XHTML documents with an
            <xref keyref="glossentry_alternate-css-style"><term>alternate CSS style</term></xref>
          that displays the document in <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode similar to how the
          document will look when printed.</li>
      </ul></p>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="author-xhtml-doc-type.dita"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
