<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="editing-OpenAPI-test-scenarios">
  <title>OpenAPI Test Scenario Document Type (Framework)</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>OpenAPI test scenario documents<indexterm>Editing
          features</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>OpenAPI test scenario documents<indexterm>Content
          completion</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>OpenAPI test scenario documents<indexterm>Validation</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_okg_cgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> includes a specialized framework for working with
      OpenAPI test scenario files. It includes the usual text editing actions, a visual editing
      interface, content completion, and automatic validation.</p>
    <section id="section_mp3_5ld_rtb" product="editor editorEclipse">
      <title>Author Mode Editing</title>
      <p id="p_np3_5ld_rtb">You can edit OpenAPI test scenario files in the visual
          <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> editing mode and you have access to the various features and
        actions that are available when <xref href="editing-xml-documents-author.dita">editing XML
          documents in <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="document_templates">
      <title>Default Document Template</title>
      <p id="p_zkk_cgk_54b">There is a default scenario file template available when creating <xref
          href="new-dialog-sa.dita#new-dialog-sa" product="developer editor">new documents from
          templates</xref><xref href="creating-from-templates.dita#creating-from-templates"
          product="developerEclipse editorEclipse">new documents from templates</xref> and they can
        be found in the <menucascade>
          <uicontrol>Framework Templates</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>OpenAPI Test Scenario</uicontrol>
        </menucascade>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_n2p_sld_rtb">
      <title>Content Completion</title>
      <p id="p_o2p_sld_rtb"><ph keyref="product"/> helps you edit OpenAPI test scenario files
        through the <xref keyref="glossentry_content-completion-assistant"><term>Content Completion
            Assistant</term></xref>, offering proposals for properties and values that can be
        inserted at the cursor position. It can be manually activated with the <uicontrol
          conkeyref="reusable-oxygen-shortcuts-list/ctrl_space"/> shortcut.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_bfn_tld_rtb">
      <title>Validation</title>
      <p id="p_z3g_cgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> includes built-in validation for OpenAPI test
        scenario documents to help you keep them well-formed. The documents are validated
        automatically as you type against the schema specified in the framework and problems are
        highlighted within the document.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_vfk_vld_rtb" product="developer editor">
      <title>OpenAPI Tools</title>
      <p id="p_wfk_vld_rtb">The following additional OpenAPI tools are available as free add-ons:
          <ul id="ul_nc5_cmd_rtb">
          <li id="li_oc5_cmd_rtb"><b>OpenAPI Tester</b> - Provides the ability to inspect OpenAPI
            request responses and to ensure that they work as expected. It can be used for <xref
              href="https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.1.0" format="html" scope="external">OpenAPI
              3.x</xref> in JSON or YAML format. For details, see <xref href="openapi-tester.dita"
              >OpenAPI Tester Add-on</xref>.</li>
          <li id="li_fz5_y5q_l5b"><b>Run OpenAPI Test Scenario</b> - Provides the ability to run a
            test suite for an OpenAPI document in JSON format. It performs the requests based on the
            specified OpenAPI document and the data entered in the test file, and then checks if the
            server responses are as expected. For details, see <xref
              href="run-openapi-test-scenario.dita">Run OpenAPI Test Scenario</xref>.</li>
          <li id="li_mm1_gmd_rtb"><b>OpenAPI Documentation Generator</b> - Provides the ability to
            generate documentation for <term>OpenAPI</term> components in HTML format, including
            annotations and cross references. The documentation displays information about the
            servers, paths, components and tags defined in the <xref
              href="https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.0.3" format="html" scope="external">OpenAPI
              3.0</xref> documents and it is presented in a visual diagram style with various
            sections, hyperlinks, and filtering options. For details, see <xref
              href="openapi-documentation-generator.dita">OpenAPI Documentation Generator
              Add-on</xref>.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_vvs_vvd_1rb">
      <title>Resources</title>
      <ul id="ul_rll_xfn_dtb">
        <li id="li_us3_yfn_dtb">For more details about the <i>OpenAPI Specification</i>, along with
          example documents, go to <xref href="https://spec.openapis.org/oas/latest.html"
            format="html" scope="external"/>.</li>
        <li id="li_vzk_cnp_dvb"><xref href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1WcETCUFqlw"
            format="html" scope="external">Video: <b>OpenAPI Document Editing in Oxygen XML
              Editor</b></xref></li>
        <li id="li_fzt_xfn_dtb"><xref href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gKdabeh49Qk"
            format="html" scope="external">Webinar: <b>OpenAPI Editing, Testing, and
            Documenting</b></xref></li>
        <li id="li_mfk_vm5_vvb"><xref
            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/events/2022/webinar_openapi_support_in_oxygen.html"
            format="html" scope="external">Webinar: <b>OpenAPI/AsyncAPI Support in
          Oxygen</b></xref></li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
