<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="editing-xliff">
  <title>Editing XLIFF Documents</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>XLIFF documents<indexterm>Editing features</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>XLIFF (<i>XML Localization Interchange File Format</i>) is an XML-based format that was
      designed to standardize the way multilingual data is passed between tools during a
      localization process. <ph keyref="product"/> provides the following support for editing XLIFF
      documents:</p>
    <p>XLIFF Version 1.2 and 2.0 Support:<ul id="ul_dhg_5t1_zs">
        <li>New document templates for XLIFF documents.</li>
        <li>A default CSS file (<filepath>xliff.css</filepath>) used for rendering XLIFF content in
            <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode is stored in <filepath><term
              conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
          />/frameworks/xliff/css/</filepath>.</li>
        <li>Validation and content completion support using local catalogs. The default catalog
            (<filepath>catalog.xml</filepath>) for version 1.2 is stored in <filepath><term
              conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
          />/frameworks/xliff/xsd/1.2</filepath>, and for version 2.0 in <filepath><term
              conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
          />/frameworks/xliff/xsd/2.0</filepath>. </li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>XLIFF Version 2.0 Enhanced Support:<ul id="ul_xth_w51_zs">
        <li>Support for validating XLIFF 2.0 documents using modules. The default modules are stored
          in <filepath><term conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
            />/frameworks/xliff/xsd/2.0/modules</filepath>.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <section id="editing_xliff_documents_author_mode">
      <title>Editing XLIFF Documents in <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> Mode</title>
      <p>By default, when you create a new XLIFF document <xref
          href="new-dialog-sa.dita#new-dialog-sa" product="author developer editor">from a
          template</xref><xref href="creating-from-templates.dita#creating-from-templates"
          product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">from a template</xref>, <ph
          keyref="product"/> opens it in <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode. Aside from the normal
        editing features found in <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode, you can also switch to
          <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode where <ph keyref="product"/> offers some special form
        controls specifically for XLIFF documents. These form controls simply allow you to add or
        edit XLIFF attribute values and content in a visual mode.</p>
      <p>For XLIFF version 2.0 documents, you can also change the style of the visual editing mode.
        The <uicontrol>Styles</uicontrol> drop-down menu on the toolbar offers the following styles
        that are specifically designed to render XLIFF 2.0 documents in
          <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode:<ul>
          <li><b>Default</b></li>
          <li><b>Classic</b></li>
          <li><b>Translate</b></li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
