<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="edit-conflict">
  <title>Edit Real Content Conflicts</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>Synchronize with the SVN Repository<indexterm>resolve conflicts<indexterm>edit real
              content conflicts</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>The conflicts of a file in the conflicted state (a file with the red double arrow icon) can
      be edited visually with the <uicontrol>Compare</uicontrol> view (the built-in file diff tool)
      or with an <xref href="preferences-svn.dita">external diff application</xref>. Resolving the
      conflict means deciding for each conflict if the local version of the change will remain or
      the remote one instead of the special conflict markers inserted in the file by the SVN
      server.</p>
    <p>The <uicontrol>Compare</uicontrol> view (or the external diff application <xref href="preferences-svn.dita">set in Preferences</xref>) is opened with the action
        <uicontrol>Edit Conflict</uicontrol> which is available on the contextual menus of <xref href="working-copy-view.dita">the <uicontrol>Working Copy</uicontrol> view</xref> and is
      enabled only for files in the conflicted state (an update operation was executed but the
      differences could not be merged without conflicts). The external diff application is called
      with 3 parameters because it is a 3-way diff operation between the local version of the file
      from the working copy and the HEAD version from the SVN repository with the BASE version from
      the working copy as common ancestor.</p>
    <p>If <xref href="preferences-svn-messages.dita">the option <uicontrol>Show warning dialog when
          edit conflicts</uicontrol> is enabled</xref> you will be warned at the beginning of the
      operation that the operation will overwrite the conflict version of the file received from the
      SVN server (the version which contains the conflict markers &lt;&lt;&lt;&lt;&lt;&lt;&lt;,
      =======, &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;) with the original local version of the file that
      preceded the update operation. If you press the OK button the visual conflict editing will
      proceed and a backup file of the conflict version received from the SVN server is created in
      the same working copy folder as the file with the edited conflicts. The name of the backup
      file is obtained by appending the extension <filepath>.sync.bak</filepath> to the file as
      stored on the SVN server. If you press the <uicontrol>Cancel</uicontrol> button the visual
      editing will be aborted.</p>
    <p>The usual operations on the differences between two versions of a file are available on the
      toolbar of this view:</p>
    <ul>
      <li><uicontrol>Save</uicontrol> - Saves the modifications of the local version of the file
        displayed in the left side of the view.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Perform Files Differencing</uicontrol> - Applies the diff operation on the two
        versions of the file displayed in the view. It is useful after modifying the local version
        displayed in the left side of the view.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Go to First Modification</uicontrol> - Scrolls the view to the topmost
        difference.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Go to Previous Modification</uicontrol> - Scrolls the view to the previous
        difference. The current difference is painted with a darker color than the other ones.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Go to Next Modification</uicontrol> - Scrolls the view to the next difference.
        The current difference is painted with a darker color than the other ones.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Go to Last Modification</uicontrol> - Scrolls the view to the last
        difference.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Copy All Non Conflicting Changes from Left to Right</uicontrol> - Not
        applicable for editing conflicts so it is disabled.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Copy Change from Left to Right</uicontrol> - Not applicable for editing
        conflicts so it is disabled.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Copy Change from Right to Left</uicontrol> - Copies the current difference from
        the left side to the right side by replacing the highlighted text of the current difference
        from the left side with the one from the right side.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Copy All Non Conflicting Changes from Right to Left</uicontrol> - Applies the
        previous operation for all the differences.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Show Modification Details at Word Level</uicontrol> - Displays a more detailed
        version of the current difference computed at word level.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Show Modification Details at Char Level</uicontrol> - Displays a more detailed
        version of the current difference computed at character level.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Ignore Whitespaces</uicontrol> - The text nodes are normalized before computing
        the difference so that if two text nodes differ only in whitespace characters they are
        reported as equal.</li>
    </ul>
    <p>The operation begins by overwriting the conflict version of the file received from the SVN
      server (the version which contains the conflict markers &lt;&lt;&lt;&lt;&lt;&lt;&lt;, =======,
      &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;) with the original local version of the file before running the
      update action which created the conflict. After that the differences between this original
      local version and the repository version are displayed in the <uicontrol>Compare</uicontrol>
      view.</p>
    <p>If you want to edit the conflict version of the file directly in a text editor instead of the
      visual editing offered by the <uicontrol>Compare</uicontrol> view you should work on the local
      working copy file after the update operation without running the action <uicontrol>Edit
        Conflict</uicontrol>. If you decide that you want to edit the conflict version directly
      after running the action <uicontrol>Edit Conflict</uicontrol> you have to work on the
        <filepath>.sync.bak</filepath> file.</p>
    <p>If you did not finish editing the conflicts in a file at the first run of the action
        <uicontrol>Edit Conflict</uicontrol> you can run the action again and you will be prompted
      to choose between resuming the editing where the previous run left it and starting again from
      the conflict file received from the SVN server.</p>
    <p>After the conflicts are edited and saved in the local version of the file you should run:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>either the action <uicontrol>Mark Resolved</uicontrol> on the file so that the result of
        the conflict editing process can be committed to the SVN repository,</li>
      <li>or the action <uicontrol>Revert</uicontrol> so that the repository version overwrites all
        the local modifications.</li>
    </ul>
    <p>Both actions remove the backup file and other temporary files created with the conflict
      version of the local file.</p>
  </body>
</topic>