<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="editing-markdown">
  <title>Editing Markdown Documents</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Markdown documents</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_vc3_cgk_54b"><b>Markdown</b> was created as a lightweight markup language with plain text formatting
      syntax designed to provide syntax that is very easy to read and write, and to convert it to
      HTML and other formats. It is often used by content contributors who want a quick and easy way
      to write content without having to take their fingers off the keyboard and without having to
      learn numerous codes or shortcuts, and it can easily be shared interchangeably between
      virtually any types of contributor and system.</p>
    <p id="p_wc3_cgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> provides a built-in Markdown editor that allows you to convert
      Markdown syntax to HTML or DITA and it includes a preview panel to help you visualize the
      final output. Aside from the plain text syntax that is common among most Markdown
      applications, the editor in <ph keyref="product"/> also integrates many other powerful
      features that content authors are accustomed to using for other types of documents. Some of
      these additional unique features include:<ul id="ul_xc3_cgk_54b">
        <li id="li_yc3_cgk_54b">Additional toolbar and contextual menu actions.</li>
        <li id="li_zc3_cgk_54b">Automatic validation to help keep the syntax valid.</li>
        <li id="li_ad3_cgk_54b">Dedicated syntax highlighting to make Markdown documents even easier to read and
          write.</li>
        <li id="li_bd3_cgk_54b"
          product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">Unique
          features for creating Markdown documents directly in <xref keyref="glossentry_ditamap"
              ><term>DITA maps</term></xref> and converting Markdown documents to DITA topics.</li>
        <li id="li_cd3_cgk_54b">Specialized syntax rules to combine popular syntax features from several
          specifications.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <section id="section_v54_rr5_ypb">
      <title>Resources</title>
      <p id="p_w54_rr5_ypb">For more information about editing Markdown documents in <ph
          keyref="product"/>, see our webinar: <xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/events/2020/webinar_oxygen_markdown_support.html"
          format="html" scope="external"><b>Oxygen Markdown Support</b></xref>.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
