<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="editing-xml-schema-main-files-context">
  <title>Editing XML Schema in the Main Files Context</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>XML Schemas<indexterm>Editing in Main Files context</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_nnc_cgk_54b">Smaller interrelated modules that define a complex XML Schema cannot be correctly edited or
      validated individually, due to their interdependency with other modules. For example, an
      element defined in a main schema document is not visible when you edit an included module. <ph
        keyref="product"/> provides the support for defining the main module (or modules), thus
      allowing you to edit any of the imported/included schema files in the context of the larger
      schema structure.</p>
    <p id="p_onc_cgk_54b">You can set a main XML document <ph>either using the <xref
          href="defining_main_files.dita#defining_main_files"><term>main files</term> support from
          the <uicontrol product="developer editor">Project</uicontrol><uicontrol
            product="developerEclipse editorEclipse">Project Explorer</uicontrol> view</xref>,
        or</ph> using a validation scenario.</p>
    <p id="p_pnc_cgk_54b">To set a <term>main file</term> using a validation scenario, add validation units that
      point to the main schemas. <ph keyref="product"/> warns you if the current module is not part
      of the dependencies graph computed for the main schema. In this case, it considers the current
      module as the main schema.</p>
    <p id="p_qnc_cgk_54b">The advantages of editing in the context of a <xref keyref="glossentry_main-file"
          ><term>main file</term></xref> include:<ul id="ul_rnc_cgk_54b">
        <li id="li_snc_cgk_54b">Correct validation of a module in the context of a larger schema structure.</li>
        <li id="li_tnc_cgk_54b"><xref keyref="glossentry_content-completion-assistant"><term>Content Completion
              Assistant</term></xref> displays all the referable components valid in the current
          context. This include components defined in modules other than the currently edited
          one.</li>
        <li id="li_unc_cgk_54b">The <xref href="xml-schema-diagram-outline-view.dita#xml-schema-diagram-outline-view"
              ><uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol> view</xref> displays the components collected from the
          entire schema structure.</li>
      </ul></p>
  </body>
</topic>
