<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="editing-xml-schema-schemas">
  <title>Editing XML Schemas (XSD)</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>XML Schemas</indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_lnb_cgk_54b">An XML Schema (XSD) describes the structure of an XML document and is used
      to validate XML document instances against it, to check that the XML instances conform to the
      specified requirements. If an XML instance conforms to the schema then it is said to be valid.
      Otherwise, it is invalid.</p>
    <p id="p_mnb_cgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> offers support for both XML Schema 1.0 and 1.1 and you can edit XML
      Schema files in the following editing modes:<ul id="ul_nnb_cgk_54b">
        <li id="li_onb_cgk_54b"><b><xref keyref="editing_xml-schemas_text"><uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> editing mode</xref></b>
          - Allows you to edit XML Schema files in a source editing mode.</li>
        <li id="li_pnb_cgk_54b"><b><xref href="grid-mode-editor.dita#grid-mode-editor"><uicontrol>Grid</uicontrol>
              editing mode</xref></b> - Displays XML Schema files in a structured spreadsheet-like
          grid.</li>
        <li id="li_qnb_cgk_54b"><b><xref href="xml-schema-diagram-introduction.dita"><uicontrol>Design</uicontrol>
              editing mode</xref></b> - Visual schema designer that helps you understand the
          structure and develop complex schemas.</li>
        <li product="editor editorEclipse" id="li_rnb_cgk_54b"><b><xref
              href="editing-xml-documents-author.dita#editing-xml-documents-author"
                ><uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> editing mode</xref></b> - The visual
            <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode is also available for XML Schema, allowing you to
          visually edit the schema annotations. It presents a polished and compact view of the XML
          Schema, with support for links on imported/included schemas.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p id="p_snb_cgk_54b">For information about applying and detecting schemas, see <xref
        href="associate-schema-to-document.dita#associate-schema-to-document"/>.</p>
    <section id="section_egf_ybf_w5b">
      <title>Resources</title>
      <p id="p_tnb_cgk_54b">For more information about editing XML Schemas, see our video
        demonstration:</p>
      <p id="p_unb_cgk_54b"><object width="450" height="250"
          data="https://www.youtube.com/embed/vz1eIZELQgc" outputclass="iframe">
          <param name="allowfullscreen" value="true"/>
        </object></p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist><title>Related Information:</title><link href="associate-schema-to-document.dita#associate-schema-to-document"/></linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
