<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="editing-schematron">
  <title>Editing Schematron Schemas</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Schematron<indexterm>Editing features</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_ksg_cgk_54b">Schematron is a simple and powerful Structural Schema Language for making assertions about
      patterns found in XML documents. It relies almost entirely on XPath query patterns for
      defining rules and checks. Schematron validation rules allow you to specify a meaningful error
      message. This error message is provided to you if an error is encountered during the
      validation stage.</p>
    <p id="p_lsg_cgk_54b">There are numerous online resources out there to help you get started with writing Schematron
      rules. Here are just a few that might help you:<ul id="ul_msg_cgk_54b">
        <li id="li_nsg_cgk_54b"><xref href="https://upg-dh.newtfire.org/explainSchematron.html"
            format="html" scope="external">Guide to Schema Writing with Schematron</xref></li>
        <li id="li_osg_cgk_54b"><xref
            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/events/2018/webinar_creating_schematron_rules_and_quick_fixes.html"
            format="html" scope="external">Presentation: Schematron Development with
          Oxygen</xref></li>
      </ul></p>
    <p id="p_psg_cgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> assists you in editing Schematron documents with schema-based content
      completion, syntax highlight, search and refactor actions, and dedicated icons for the <xref
        href="schematron-outline-view.dita#schematron-outline-view"><uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol>
        view</xref>. You can create a new Schematron schema using one of the Schematron templates
      available in the <xref href="new-dialog-sa.dita#new-dialog-sa" product="developer editor"
          ><uicontrol>New</uicontrol> document wizard</xref><xref
        href="creating-from-templates.dita#creating-from-templates"
        product="developerEclipse editorEclipse"><uicontrol>New from Templates</uicontrol>
        wizard</xref>.</p>
    <p id="p_qsg_cgk_54b">For information about applying and detecting Schematron schemas, see <xref
        href="associate-schema-to-document.dita#associate-schema-to-document"/>.</p>
    <section id="validating_xml_documents_against_schematron">
      <title>Validating XML Documents Against Schematron</title>
      <p id="p_rsg_cgk_54b">The Skeleton XSLT processor is used for validation and conforms with ISO Schematron or
        Schematron 1.5. It allows you to <xref
          href="validate-xml-with-sch.dita">validate XML documents against
          Schematron schemas</xref> or against combined RELAX NG / W3C XML Schema and Schematron.
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="how_to_specify_the_query_language_binding">
      <title>How to Specify the Query Language Binding</title>
      <p id="p_ssg_cgk_54b">You can specify the query language binding to be used in the Schematron schema by doing the
          following:<ul id="ul_f3c_jz1_gs">
          <li id="li_tsg_cgk_54b">For embedded ISO Schematron, <ph
              conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/>, go to <menucascade>
              <uicontrol>XML</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>XML Parser</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Schematron</uicontrol>
            </menucascade>, and select it in the <xref
              href="schematron-preferences-page.dita#schematron-preferences-page/embedded-rules-query-language"
                ><uicontrol>Embedded rules query language binding</uicontrol> option</xref>.</li>
          <li id="li_usg_cgk_54b">For standalone ISO Schematron, specify the version by setting the query language to be
            used in a <xmlatt>queryBinding</xmlatt> attribute on the schema root element. For more
            information, see the <xref href="https://www.schematron.com/" format="html"
              scope="external">Query Language Binding section of the Schematron
              specifications</xref>.</li>
          <li id="li_vsg_cgk_54b">For Schematron 1.5 (standalone and embedded), <ph
              conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/>, go to <menucascade>
              <uicontrol>XML</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>XML Parser</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Schematron</uicontrol>
            </menucascade>, and select the version in the <xref
              href="schematron-preferences-page.dita#schematron-preferences-page/xpath-version"
                ><uicontrol>XPath Version</uicontrol> option</xref>.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section id="multilingual_support_in_schematron_messages">
      <title>Multi-Lingual Support in Schematron Messages</title>
      <p id="p_wsg_cgk_54b">You can specify the desired language for the validation messages in the
          <xref href="schematron-preferences-page.dita#schematron-preferences-page"
            ><uicontrol>Schematron Preferences</uicontrol> page</xref>. The Schematron validation
        messages can be presented in multiple languages by defining the language for each message
        using the Schematron <xmlelement>diagnostics</xmlelement> element.</p>
      <p id="p_tdm_kts_tsb">For example, you can define a diagnostic for each language and reference
        the ID of the diagnostics in the <xmlelement>assert</xmlelement> element. You can specify
        the language of the diagnostic message by adding the <codeph>xml:lang</codeph> attribute on
        the <codeph>sch:diagnostic</codeph> element or on its
        parent:<codeblock id="codeblock_hvn_fms_tsb" outputclass="language-xml">&lt;sch:assert test="bone" diagnostics="d_en d_de">
  A dog should have a bone.
&lt;/sch:assert>
….
&lt;sch:diagnostics>
  &lt;sch:diagnostic id="d_en" xml:lang="en">
    A dog should have a bone.
  &lt;/sch:diagnostic>
  &lt;sch:diagnostic id="d_de" xml:lang="de">
    Das Hund muss ein Bein haben.
  &lt;/sch:diagnostic>
&lt;/sch:diagnostics></codeblock></p>
    </section>
    <section id="how_to_customize_color_schemes_in_schematron">
      <title>How to Customize Color Schemes in Schematron</title>
      <p id="p_xsg_cgk_54b">The Schematron editor renders the XPath expressions with dedicated color
        schemes. To customize the coloring schemes, <ph
          conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
          <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Syntax Highlight</uicontrol>
        </menucascade>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="schematron_transformation_scenario">
      <title>Schematron Transformation Scenario</title>
      <p id="p_ysg_cgk_54b">When you create a Schematron document, <ph keyref="product"/> provides a built-in
        transformation scenario. You can use this scenario to obtain the XSLT style-sheet
        corresponding to the Schematron schema. You can apply this XSLT stylesheet to XML documents
        to obtain the Schematron validation results.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_lw3_bkr_rxb" product="developer editor">
      <title>Using Schematron with AI</title>
      <p id="p_mw3_bkr_rxb">An <xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-positron-desktop/ai/ai_positron.html" scope="external" format="html"><b>Oxygen AI Positron</b>
          add-on</xref> is available that provides support for helping writers generate content by
        using the <uicontrol>Oxygen AI Positron</uicontrol> service. This add-on also contributes
        two XPath extension functions that can be used from custom Schematron schemas to rephrase
        content or to perform validation checks on existing content. The
          <codeph>ai:transform-content(instruction, content)</codeph> function can be used to
        automatically transform content using AI and the <codeph>ai:verify-content(instruction,
          content)</codeph> function can be used to automatically validate content using AI.</p>
      <p id="p_g5g_pkr_rxb">For more details, see <xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-positron-desktop/ai/functionality_features.html#functionality_features__section_a3s_ngn_2ds"
          format="html" scope="external">Oxygen AI Positron: Custom Validation
          Rules</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_yvz_qcf_w5b">
      <title>Resources</title>
      <p id="p_zsg_cgk_54b">For more information about the Schematron support in <ph
          keyref="product"/>, watch our video demonstrations:</p>
      <p id="p_atg_cgk_54b"><object width="450" height="250"
          data="https://www.youtube.com/embed/HdcZA3DJi7E" outputclass="iframe">
          <param name="allowfullscreen" value="true"/>
        </object></p>
      <p id="p_btg_cgk_54b"><object width="450" height="250"
          data="https://www.youtube.com/embed/y3u3wlO92e4" outputclass="iframe">
          <param name="allowfullscreen" value="true"/>
        </object></p>
      <p id="p_ctg_cgk_54b"><object width="450" height="250"
          data="https://www.youtube.com/embed/FQNSsg57S4E" outputclass="iframe">
          <param name="allowfullscreen" value="true"/>
        </object></p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="xml-editor-specific-actions.dita#xml-editor-specific-actions"/>
      <link href="associate-schema-to-document.dita#associate-schema-to-document"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
