<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_dgc_5xg_nm">
  <title>Embed the Java Applet in Your SharePoint Site</title>
  <body>
    <p>To embed the Java Applet in your SharePoint site, edit the page that contains the applet and
      add a new Script Editor Web Part next to an existing Documents web part.<note>It is
        recommended that you deselect the <b>Enable Java content in the browser</b> option from the
          <b>Java Control Panel</b> until you finish editing the page. Otherwise, the browser will
        load the applet for every change that you will make.</note></p>
    <p>Edit the page directly in your browser, following these steps:<ol id="ol_qp3_kyg_nm">
        <li>Navigate to the home page of your SharePoint site where you want to add the Author
          Component Java applet;</li>
        <li>Select the <uicontrol>Page</uicontrol> tab from the ribbon located at top of the page
          and click the <uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol> button;</li>
        <li>Select the <uicontrol>Insert</uicontrol> tab and click <uicontrol>Web
          Part</uicontrol>;</li>
        <li>In the <uicontrol>Categories</uicontrol> panel, select <uicontrol>Media and
            Content</uicontrol>;</li>
        <li>In the <uicontrol>Parts</uicontrol> panel, select the <uicontrol>Script
            Editor</uicontrol> Web Part; </li>
        <li>Click the <uicontrol>Add</uicontrol> button to insert the selected Web Part to your page
          content;</li>
        <li>Select the newly added Web Part;</li>
        <li>Select the <uicontrol>Web Part</uicontrol> tab and click the <uicontrol>Web Part
            Properties</uicontrol> button.</li>
        <li>Click the <uicontrol>Edit Snippet</uicontrol> link under your Web Part;</li>
        <li>Insert the following HTML snippet to your newly created Web Part:
          <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;div>
    &lt;iframe 
       id="appletIFrame" 
       src="/applet/SitePages/author-component/author-component-dita.aspx"
       width="800px" height="850px">
    &lt;/iframe>
    &lt;script type="text/JavaScript">
        function openInAuthor(itemUrl) {          
            var appletFrame = document.getElementById("appletIFrame");
            var appletWin = appletFrame.contentWindow;        
            appletWin.openListItemInAuthor(itemUrl);
        }
    &lt;/script>
&lt;/div></codeblock>The
          above HTML fragment contains an <codeph>IFrame</codeph> that points to the page where the
          Java applet resides. Replace the value of the <codeph>src</codeph> attribute with the path
          of the <filepath>author-component-dita.aspx</filepath> HTML page that you added earlier to
          the <codeph>SitePages</codeph> folder;<note>Use the <codeph>iframe</codeph> element from
            the HTML fragment with the expanded form (<codeph>&lt;iframe>&lt;/iframe></codeph>).
            Otherwise, the Web Part will not display the target page of the frame.</note></li>
        <li>Save the changes you made to the page.<note>Do not forget to select the <b>Enable Java
              content in the browser</b>, to allow the browser to load the Java applet.</note></li>
      </ol>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
