<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="emmet-addon">
  <title>Oxygen Emmet Plugin</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Add-ons<indexterm>Emmett</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Emmet add-on</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_izg_dgk_54b">An <uicontrol>Oxygen Emmet Plugin</uicontrol> is available as an add-on and it provides the
      means for high-speed coding and editing in <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode<ph
        product="author editor"> or <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode</ph> via a content assistance
      mechanism. It can be used for HTML, XSL, CSS, LESS, and other formats. For example, with the
      Emmet add-on installed, you can type abbreviations (similar to CSS selectors) and expand them
      into full-fledged HTML code. The add-on contributes a submenu named
        <uicontrol>Emmet</uicontrol> in the contextual menu and it contains actions for expanding
      abbreviations or wrapping content with an expanded abbreviation. The two actions can also be
      invoked using the <uicontrol><shortcut>Alt + Shift + E (Ctrl + Shift + E on OS
        X)</shortcut></uicontrol> or <uicontrol><shortcut>Alt + Shift + W (Ctrl + Shift + W on OS
          X)</shortcut></uicontrol> keyboard shortcuts.</p>
    <p id="p_jzg_dgk_54b">To install this add-on, follow this procedure:<ol id="ol_kzg_dgk_54b">
        <li id="li_lzg_dgk_54b">Go to <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Install new add-ons</uicontrol>
          </menucascade> to open an add-on selection dialog box. Enter or paste
            <b>https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Addons/default/updateSite.xml</b> in the
            <uicontrol>Show add-ons from</uicontrol> field or select it from the drop-down
            menu.<note type="tip" id="note_mzg_dgk_54b">For HTML, CSS, LESS, or XSL files, you can simply right-click
            anywhere in the editor pane and select <uicontrol>Emmet</uicontrol> from the pop-up
            menu.</note></li>
        <li id="li_nzg_dgk_54b">Select the <b>Oxygen Emmet Plugin</b> add-on and click <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol>.</li>
        <li id="li_ozg_dgk_54b">Read the end-user license agreement. Then select the <uicontrol>I accept all terms of
        the end-user license agreement</uicontrol> option and click <uicontrol>Finish</uicontrol>.</li>
        <li id="li_pzg_dgk_54b">Restart the application.</li>
      </ol></p>
    <p id="p_qzg_dgk_54b"><b>Result:</b> The Emmet actions will now be available using the keyboard shortcuts or in the
        <uicontrol>Emmet</uicontrol> submenu (located in the contextual menu of
        <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode<ph product="author editor"> or
          <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode</ph>.</p>
    <section id="section_wft_gkn_pkb">
      <title>Emmet Actions</title>
      <p id="p_rzg_dgk_54b">The two contributed actions are:</p>
      <p id="p_szg_dgk_54b">
        <dl id="dl_tzg_dgk_54b">
          <dlentry id="dlentry_uzg_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Expand abbreviation [<uicontrol><shortcut>Alt + Shift + E (Ctrl + Shift + E on OS
                  X)</shortcut></uicontrol>]</dt>
            <dd>
              <p id="p_vzg_dgk_54b">In <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode, after entering an abbreviation, invoking this
                action will expand a valid abbreviation into a code snippet, depending on the
                document type.</p>
              <p id="p_wzg_dgk_54b">In <uicontrol>Author mode</uicontrol>, invoking the action opens a dialog box where
                you can enter an abbreviation. After you click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol>, a valid
                abbreviation is expanded into a code snippet, depending on the document type.</p>
              <note type="tip" id="note_xzg_dgk_54b">For HTML, CSS, LESS, or XML-based document types, you can also use
                    <uicontrol><shortcut>Ctrl + Space</shortcut></uicontrol> to expand Emmet
                abbreviations.</note>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_yzg_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Wrap with abbreviation [<uicontrol><shortcut>Alt + Shift + W (Ctrl + Shift + W on OS
                  X)</shortcut></uicontrol>]</dt>
            <dd>
              <p id="p_zzg_dgk_54b">It opens a dialog box where you can enter an abbreviation and after clicking
                  <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol>, the abbreviation is expanded with the selected content
                added in the last element of the generated snippet.</p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_dzw_3kn_pkb">
      <title>Abbreviation Expansion Examples</title>
      <p id="p_a1h_dgk_54b">Here are some examples for HTML:<ul id="ul_bcc_42x_pkb">
          <li id="li_b1h_dgk_54b">
            <p id="p_c1h_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>Expand abbreviation</uicontrol> example:</p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_d1h_dgk_54b">#page>div.logo+ul#navigation>li*5>a{Item $}</codeblock>
            <p id="p_e1h_dgk_54b">expands into:</p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_f1h_dgk_54b">&lt;div id="page">
  &lt;div class="logo">&lt;/div>
  &lt;ul id="navigation">
    &lt;li>&lt;a href="">Item 1&lt;/a>&lt;/li>
    &lt;li>&lt;a href="">Item 2&lt;/a>&lt;/li>
    &lt;li>&lt;a href="">Item 3&lt;/a>&lt;/li>
    &lt;li>&lt;a href="">Item 4&lt;/a>&lt;/li>
    &lt;li>&lt;a href="">Item 5&lt;/a>&lt;/li>
  &lt;/ul>
&lt;/div></codeblock>
          </li>
          <li id="li_g1h_dgk_54b">
            <p id="p_h1h_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>Wrap with abbreviation</uicontrol> example:</p>
            <p id="p_i1h_dgk_54b">If the following content is selected to be wrapped:</p>
            <pre> About
 News
 Products
 Contacts</pre>
            <p id="p_j1h_dgk_54b">then</p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_k1h_dgk_54b">ul>li[title=$#]*>{$#}+img[src=https://www.ex1.com/$#][alt=item$]</codeblock>
            <p id="p_l1h_dgk_54b">expands
              into:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_m1h_dgk_54b">&lt;ul>
    &lt;li title="About">About&lt;img src="https://www.ex1.com/About" alt="item1">&lt;/li>
    &lt;li title="News">News&lt;img src="https://www.ex1.com/News" alt="item2">&lt;/li>
    &lt;li title="Products">Products&lt;img src="https://www.ex1.com/Products" alt="item3">&lt;/li>
    &lt;li title="Contacts">Contacts&lt;img src="https://www.ex1.com/Contacts" alt="item4">&lt;/li>
&lt;/ul></codeblock></p>
          </li>
        </ul></p>
      <p id="p_n1h_dgk_54b">You can also use Emmet abbreviations for other XML documents. Here are some examples of expanded abbreviations for DITA:<ul id="ul_f12_yjn_pkb">
          <li id="li_o1h_dgk_54b">
            <codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_p1h_dgk_54b">prolog>author {AuthorName}</codeblock>
            <p id="p_q1h_dgk_54b">expands into:</p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_r1h_dgk_54b">&lt;prolog>
  &lt;author>AuthorName&lt;/author>
&lt;/prolog></codeblock>
          </li>
          <li id="li_s1h_dgk_54b">
            <codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_t1h_dgk_54b">simpletable&gt;(strow&gt;stentry*4)*4</codeblock>
            <p id="p_u1h_dgk_54b">expands into a 4x4 simple table.</p>
          </li>
          <li id="li_v1h_dgk_54b">
            <codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_w1h_dgk_54b">ul&gt;li*3</codeblock>
            <p id="p_x1h_dgk_54b">expands into an unordered list with 3 list items.</p>
          </li>
          <li id="li_y1h_dgk_54b">
            <codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_z1h_dgk_54b">ol&gt;li[id="item$"]*3</codeblock>
            <p id="p_abh_dgk_54b">expands
              into:<codeblock xml:space="preserve" outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_bbh_dgk_54b">&lt;ol id="ol_gff_bjd_mkb"&gt;
  &lt;li id="item1"/&gt;
  &lt;li id="item2"/&gt;
  &lt;li id="item3"/&gt;
&lt;/ol&gt;</codeblock></p>
          </li>
        </ul></p>
      <p id="p_cbh_dgk_54b">Here are a few CSS examples:<ul id="ul_b14_t5s_2lb">
          <li id="li_dbh_dgk_54b">
            <codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_ebh_dgk_54b">@f+</codeblock>
            <p id="p_fbh_dgk_54b">expands into:</p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_gbh_dgk_54b">@font-face {
	font-family: 'FontName';
	src: url('FileName.eot');
	src: url('FileName.eot?#iefix') format('embedded-opentype'),
		 url('FileName.woff') format('woff'),
		 url('FileName.ttf') format('truetype'),
		 url('FileName.svg#FontName') format('svg');
	font-style: normal;
	font-weight: normal;
}</codeblock>
          </li>
          <li id="li_hbh_dgk_54b">
            <codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_ibh_dgk_54b">-br</codeblock>
            <p id="p_jbh_dgk_54b">expands
              into:<codeblock xml:space="preserve" outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_kbh_dgk_54b">  -webkit-border-right: ;
  -moz-border-right: ;
  -ms-border-right: ;
  -o-border-right: ;
  border-right: ;</codeblock></p>
            <note type="tip" id="note_lbh_dgk_54b">To see more examples of Emmet syntax, go to <xref
                href="https://docs.emmet.io/cheat-sheet/" format="html" scope="external"/>.</note>
          </li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="https://docs.emmet.io/cheat-sheet/" format="html" scope="external">
        <linktext>Emmet Syntax Cheat Sheet</linktext>
      </link>
      <link format="html" href="https://docs.emmet.io/" scope="external">
        <linktext>Emmet Documentation</linktext>
      </link>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
