<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_u5w_k13_tfc">
    <title>Enabling Editing for Text and Markdown Files with a Custom Connector</title>
    <shortdesc> Learn how to enable editing for text and Markdown files in Oxygen XML Web Author
        when using a custom connector, and understand the differences between the Author and
        Text/Markdown editors. </shortdesc>
    <body>
        <section id="section_b4m_x13_tfc">
            <title>Overview</title>
            <p>By default, the text and Markdown file editors in Oxygen XML Web Author are
                read-only. To enable editing for these file types when using a custom connector, you
                must specify the Loading Option <codeph>supportsTextEditing</codeph> with the value
                    <codeph>true</codeph>. </p>
            <p>This restriction helps prevent potential bugs, improper behavior, or even accidental
                file overwrites that could occur if a Markdown file is opened through a connector
                not designed to work with text editors. Web Author does not provide file storage or
                built-in connectors for file servers; instead, it offers APIs (Java and JavaScript)
                for integration. Most connectors are primarily designed to support the Author
                editor. </p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_c4m_x13_tfc">
            <title>Connector Responsibilities</title>
            <p> A custom connector should enforce the business logic required by the specific file
                server it integrates with. For example: </p>
            <ul id="ul_d4m_x13_tfc">
                <li>
                    <b>WebDAV:</b> The editor should be read-only if the document is locked by
                    another user. </li>
                <li>
                    <b>CMIS:</b> The user may need to perform a "Check Out" operation before
                    editing. </li>
                <li>
                    <b>Git:</b> The connector should handle conflict resolution appropriately. </li>
            </ul>
            <p>
                <note id="note_ezf_2b3_tfc" type="important"> It is the connector's responsibility
                    to ensure that the text or Markdown editor respects the file server's rules
                    before allowing editing. </note>
            </p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_e4m_x13_tfc">
            <title>Differences Between Author and Text/Markdown Editors</title>
            <ol id="ol_f4m_x13_tfc">
                <li>
                    <b>Underlying Support:</b>
                    <ul id="ul_g4m_x13_tfc">
                        <li>The Author editor is based on
                                <codeph>sync.api.AuthorEditingSupport</codeph>.</li>
                        <li>The Text and Markdown editors are based on
                                <codeph><?oxy_comment_start author="Bogdan Dumitru" timestamp="20250623T091655+0000" comment="de fapt clasa aste e destul de seaca, nu are nimic. Intern avem sync.internal_api.TextEditingSupportImpl
"?>sync.api.TextEditingSupport<?oxy_comment_end?></codeph></li>
                    </ul></li>
                <li>
                    <b>Operation Invocation:</b>
                    <ul id="ul_h4m_x13_tfc">
                        <li>The Text/Markdown editors do not support invoking operations such as
                                <codeph>authorEditingSupport.getActionsManager().invokeOperation</codeph>.</li>
                    </ul></li>
                <li>
                    <b>Document Model:</b>
                    <ul id="ul_i4m_x13_tfc">
                        <li>The Text/Markdown editors do not have a server-side model; the document
                            is kept on the client, in the browser's memory.</li>
                        <li>The
                                <codeph>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.webapp.access.WebappEditingSessionLifecycleListener</codeph>
                            is only called for the Author editor.</li>
                    </ul></li>
                <li>
                    <b>Editor Type:</b>
                    <ul id="ul_k4m_x13_tfc">
                        <li>The Author editor returns
                                <codeph>authorEditingSupport.getType()</codeph> as
                                <codeph>sync.api.Editor.EditorTypes.AUTHOR</codeph>.</li>
                        <li>The Text/Markdown editors return
                                <codeph>sync.api.Editor.EditorTypes.TEXT</codeph> or
                                <codeph>sync.api.Editor.EditorTypes.MARKDOWN</codeph>.</li>
                    </ul></li>
                <li>
                    <b>Concurrent Editing:</b>
                    <ul id="ul_l4m_x13_tfc">
                        <li>The Text/Markdown editors do not support concurrent editing.</li>
                    </ul></li>
                <li>
                    <b>Editor Loaded Event:</b>
                    <ul id="ul_j4m_x13_tfc">
                        <li>Both editors trigger the
                                <codeph>sync.api.Workspace.EventType.EDITOR_LOADED</codeph> API
                            event.</li>
                    </ul></li>
                <li>
                    <b>URL Stream Handler:</b>
                    <ul id="ul_m4m_x13_tfc">
                        <li>Both editors can use a <codeph>URLStreamHandler</codeph> defined on the
                            server.</li>
                    </ul></li>
                <li>
                    <b>Toolbar and Actions:</b>
                    <ul id="ul_n4m_x13_tfc">
                        <li>Both editors support toolbars and actions, and both trigger the
                                <codeph>sync.api.Editor.EventTypes.ACTIONS_LOADED</codeph> API
                            event.</li>
                    </ul></li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <section id="section_g2b_pc3_tfc">
            <title>General Guidance</title>
            <p>To integrate the Text or Markdown editor with a custom connector, you may follow
                these commonly used steps: </p>
            <ol id="ol_h2b_pc3_tfc">
                <li>Set the <codeph>supportsTextEditing</codeph> loading option by handling the
                        <codeph>sync.api.Workspace.EventType.BEFORE_EDITOR_LOADED</codeph> event.
                    For more details, see the <xref
                        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/maven/com/oxygenxml/oxygen-webapp/27.1.0.0/jsdoc/tutorial-loadingoptions.html"
                        format="html" scope="external">Loading Options Tutorial</xref>. </li>
                <li>Customize the toolbar as needed. Refer to the <xref
                        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/maven/com/oxygenxml/oxygen-webapp/27.1.0.0/jsdoc/tutorial-removeaction.html"
                        format="html" scope="external">Remove Action Tutorial</xref>. You can also
                    add your own custom actions to the toolbar. </li>
                <li>Override the default "Text/Save" action with your custom implementation. </li>
                <li>Listen for the <codeph>sync.api.Workspace.EventType.EDITOR_LOADED</codeph> event
                    and use <codeph>sync.api.Editor.setReadOnlyState</codeph> to control whether the
                    editor is in read-only mode. </li>
            </ol>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
