<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="enabling-the-master-files-support">
  <title>Enabling the Master Files Support</title>
  <!--Proofed-->
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> stores the <term>master files</term> in a folder located in the
        <uicontrol product="author developer editor">Project</uicontrol><uicontrol
        product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">Navigator</uicontrol> view, as the
      first child of the project root. The <uicontrol>Master Files Support</uicontrol> is disabled
      by default. <ph product="author developer editor">To enable the <uicontrol>Master Files
          Support</uicontrol>, go to the <uicontrol>Settings</uicontrol> menu of the
          <uicontrol>Project</uicontrol> view and select <uicontrol>Enable Master Files
          Support</uicontrol>. You can also select <uicontrol>Enable Master Files
          Support</uicontrol> from the contextual menu of the <filepath>Master Files</filepath>
        directory, or from the contextual menu of the project itself.</ph><ph
        product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">To enable the <uicontrol>Master Files
          Support</uicontrol>, use the <uicontrol>Enable Master Files Support</uicontrol> action
        from the contextual menu of the project itself.</ph>
      <ph keyref="product"/> allows you to enable/disable the <uicontrol>Master Files
        Support</uicontrol> for each project you are working on.</p>
    <p product="author developer editor">When the <uicontrol>Master Files Support</uicontrol> is
      disabled, <ph keyref="product"/> displays a window tip located at the bottom of the project
      view. This window contains an <uicontrol>Enable</uicontrol> button and a <uicontrol>read
        more...</uicontrol> option. Clicking the <uicontrol>read more...</uicontrol> option takes
      you to the user guide. Clicking the <uicontrol>Enable</uicontrol> button opens the
        <uicontrol>Enable Master Files</uicontrol> dialog. This dialog contains general information
      about the <uicontrol>Master Files Support</uicontrol> and allows you to enable it. You can
      also use the <uicontrol>Detect and Enable</uicontrol> option to detect the <term>master
        files</term> from the current project. <note>Once you close this window tip, <ph
          keyref="product"/> hides it for all projects. To make the window tip reappear, restore <ph
          keyref="product"/> to its default settings.</note><note type="warning"> Restoring <ph
          keyref="product"/> to its default settings causes loss of your customized
      options.</note></p>
  </body>
</topic>
