<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="entering-local-paths-urls">
  <title>Entering Local Paths and URLs</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>SVN Client<indexterm>Entering local paths and URLs</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>The <ph keyref="product"/> includes a variety of option configuration pages or wizards that
      contain text boxes where you specify paths to local resources or URLs of items inside remote
      repositories. The <ph keyref="product"/> provides support in these text boxes to make it
      easier to specify these paths and URLs. </p>
    <section id="local-path-section">
      <title>Local Item Paths</title>
      <p>The text boxes used for specifying local item paths support the following:<ul
          id="ul_jsk_bj1_pr">
          <li><i>Absolute Paths</i> - In most cases, the <ph keyref="product"/> expects absolute
            paths for local file system items.</li>
          <li><i>Relative Paths</i> - The <ph keyref="product"/> only accepts relative paths in the
            form <codeph>~[/...]</codeph>, where <codeph>~</codeph> is the user home directory.</li>
          <li><i>Path Validation</i> - <ph keyref="product"/> validates the path as you type and
            invalid text becomes red.</li>
          <li><i>Drag and Drop</i> - You can drag files and folders from the file system or other
            applications and drop them into the text box.</li>
          <li><i>Automatic Use of Clipboard Data</i> - If the text box is empty when its dialog box
            is opened, any data that is available in the system clipboard is used, provided that it
            is valid for that text box.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section id="url-section">
      <title>Repository Item URLs</title>
      <ul id="ul_yyd_sj1_pr">
        <li><i>Local Repository Paths</i> - You can use local paths (absolute or relative) to access
          local repositories. When you use the <uicontrol>Browse</uicontrol> button, the <ph
            keyref="product"/> will convert the file path to a <codeph>file://</codeph> form of URL,
          provided that the location is a real repository.<ul id="ul_ikn_yj1_pr">
            <li><i>Absolute Paths</i> - In most cases, the <ph keyref="product"/> expects absolute
              paths for local file system items.</li>
            <li><i>Relative Paths</i> - The <ph keyref="product"/> only accepts relative paths in
              the form <codeph>~[/...]</codeph>, where <codeph>~</codeph> is the user home
              directory.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li><i>Peg Revisions</i> - For URL text boxes found inside dialog boxes where you are
          pulling information from the repository, you can <xref
            href="using-peg-revisions.dita#using-peg-revisions">use peg revisions at the end of the
            URLs</xref> (for example, <codeph>URL@rev1234</codeph>).<note>If you try to use a
              <i>peg revision</i> number in a dialog box where you are sending information to
            the repository then the peg revision number will become part of the name of the item
            rather than searching for the specified revision. For example, in the URL
              <codeph>http://host/path/inside/repo/item@100</codeph>, the item name is considered to
            be <codeph>item@100</codeph>.</note><note type="tip">You can even use <i>peg
              revisions</i> with local repository paths. For example,
              <codeph>C:\path\to\local\repo@100</codeph> will be converted to
              <codeph>file:///C:/path/to/local/repo@100</codeph> and the <uicontrol>Repository
              browser</uicontrol> will display the content of the local repository as it is at
            revision <codeph>100</codeph>.</note></li>
        <li><i>URL Validation</i> - <ph keyref="product"/> validates the URLs as you type and
          invalid text becomes red. Even paths to local repositories are not accepted unless using
          the <uicontrol>Browse</uicontrol> button to convert them to valid URLs.</li>
        <li><i>Drag and Drop</i> - You can drag URLs from other applications or text editors and
          drop them into the URL text box. You can also drag folders that point to local
          repositories, from the local file system or from other applications, and they are
          automatically converted to valid <codeph>file://</codeph> type URLs.</li>
        <li><i>Automatic Use of Clipboard Data</i> - If the URL text box is empty when its dialog
          box is opened, any data that is available in the system clipboard is used, provided that
          it is valid for that text box. Even valid local paths will be automatically converted to
            <codeph>file://</codeph> type URLs.</li>
      </ul>
      <note>The text boxes that are in the form of a combo box also allow you to select previously
        used URLs, or URLs defined in the <uicontrol>Repositories</uicontrol> view.</note>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
