<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="eppo.pathfinder.documents">
  <title>Pathfinder: Documents and Maps</title>
  <body>
    <p><?oxy_comment_start author="radu_coravu" timestamp="20150107T121217+0200" comment="What does the &quot;DITA&quot; keyword mean here? The standard? Or the publishing engine?
What does &quot;documents&quot; mean, the final publication format?"?>In
      DITA, <?oxy_comment_end?>you create documents by collecting topics into maps. </p>
    <section>
      <title>DITA Maps</title>
      <p>A <xref keyref="dita.add-topic-to-map">DITA map</xref> organizes a set of topics into a
        hierarchy. In most output formats, the structure of the map becomes the structure of the
        table of contents. <ph keyref="product"/> provides support for creating and managing DITA
        maps through the <xref keyref="dita.edit-maps"><wintitle>DITA Maps
        Manager</wintitle></xref>. </p>
      <p>To watch a video on DITA editing and <wintitle>DITA Maps Manager</wintitle> view, go to
          <xref href="http://oxygenxml.com/demo/DITA_Editing.html" format="html" scope="external"
          >http://oxygenxml.com/demo/DITA_Editing.html</xref> and <xref
          href="http://oxygenxml.com/demo/DITA_Maps_Manager.html" format="html" scope="external"
          >http://oxygenxml.com/demo/DITA_Maps_Manager.html</xref>, respectively.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Book Maps</title>
      <p>A <xref keyref="dita.book-map">book map</xref> is a specialized type of DITA map intended
        for creating the structure of a book. </p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Sub-Maps</title>
      <p>You do not have to create an entire publication using a single map. It is generally good
        practice to break up a large publication into several smaller <xref keyref="dita.submaps"
          >sub-maps</xref> that are easier to manage. You can include a sub-map in a main map using
        a <codeph>mapref</codeph> element. You can reuse sub-maps in a variety of different
        publications by including them in each of the different publication's main maps. The
          <wintitle>DITA Maps Manager</wintitle> provides support or creating and managing
        sub-maps.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Chunking</title>
      <p>By default,
        <?oxy_comment_start author="radu_coravu" timestamp="20150107T121312+0200" comment="What does &quot;page&quot; mean? It means something for PDF and something else for HTML."?>many
        output types place a single topic on each page<?oxy_comment_end?>. In some cases you may
        want to <xref keyref="dita.chunking">output multiple topics as a single output page</xref>.
        To support this, DITA provides the <codeph>chunk</codeph> attribute on the
          <codeph>topicref</codeph> element in a map.</p>
    </section>
    <section><title>Validating a Map</title>You should validate your maps to make sure that the
      individual topics are valid and that the relationships between them are working. <ph
        keyref="product"/> provides a
      <?oxy_comment_start author="steven_higgs" timestamp="20141208T161944+0200" comment="Link this to a section about validating and checking for completeness action."?>validation
      function for DITA maps<?oxy_comment_end?> that performs a comprehensive validation of a map
      and its topics. </section>
  </body>
</topic>
<?oxy_options track_changes="on"?>