<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="eppo-reuse-content">
  <title>Inserting a Reusable Content Component</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>DITA<indexterm>Reusing content<indexterm>Reusable components<indexterm>Insert
                Reusable Component</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <taskbody>
    <context>
      <p><ph keyref="product"/> includes an <uicontrol>Insert Reusable Content</uicontrol> action
        that allows you to easily insert a reusable content component that you <xref
          keyref="dita_create-reusable-component">created using the <uicontrol>Create Reusable
            Component</uicontrol> action</xref>.<note type="caution">This action is only designed to
          insert reusable components created using the <ph keyref="product"/>
          <uicontrol>Create Reusable Component</uicontrol> action. It assumes certain things about
          the structure of the reusable content file that may not be true of reusable content
          created by other methods and it may not provide the expected results if used with content
          that does not have the same structure. </note></p>
      <p>The <uicontrol>Insert Reusable Content</uicontrol> action creates a DITA
          <codeph>conref</codeph> to insert the content, and creates a parent element for the
          <codeph>conref</codeph> attribute based on the type of the reusable element in the
        reusable component file. This action ensures that the correct element is used to create the
          <codeph>conref</codeph>. However, that element must still be inserted at a point in the
        current topic where that element type is permitted.</p>
      <p>To insert a reusable component that was created using the <uicontrol>Create Reusable
          Component</uicontrol> action, follow these steps:</p>
    </context>
    <steps>
      <step id="step_hny_w4t_1q">
        <cmd>Place the cursor at the insertion point where you want the reusable component to be
          inserted.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Select the <uicontrol>Insert Reusable Component</uicontrol> action that is available in
          the <uicontrol>DITA</uicontrol> menu or the <uicontrol>Reuse</uicontrol> submenu of the
          contextual menu.</cmd>
        <stepresult>The <wintitle>Insert Reusable Component</wintitle> dialog box is
          displayed.</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Locate the reusable content file in which you want to insert its content.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>If you select <uicontrol>Content reference</uicontrol> in the <uicontrol>Insert
            as</uicontrol> drop-down list, the action will add a <codeph>conref</codeph> attribute
          to the DITA element at the current location. If you select <uicontrol>Copy</uicontrol> in
          the drop-down list, the content of the reusable component file will simply be pasted at
          the current location (assuming the content is valid at the current location).</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click <uicontrol>Insert</uicontrol> to perform the action.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>
  </taskbody>
</task>
