<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_dj4_k2l_vp">
  <title>Pathfinder: Linking</title>
  <body>
    <p>DITA provides support for various types of linking between topics, some of which is
      automated, and some of which is specified by the author. <ph keyref="product"/> provides
      support of all forms of linking in DITA.</p>
    <section>
      <title>Linking between parent, child, and sibling topics</title>
      <p>A DITA Map creates a hierarchical relationship between topics. That relationship map
        express a narrative flow from one topic to another, or it may be used as a classification
        systems to help the reader find topics based on their classification, without creating a
        narrative flow. Because the relationship between topics in a hierarchy can be different in
        this way, you may want to create links between topics in different ways. For instance, if
        your topics are supposed to be organized into a narrative flow, you may want to have links
        to the next and previous topics in that flow. If your topics are part of a hierarchical
        classification, you may want links from parent to child topics, and vice versa, but not next
        and previous links. </p>
      <p>Parent, child, and sibling links are created automatically by the DITA output transforms
        (and may differ between different output formats). The kinds of links that are created are
        determined by the DITA collection-type attribute, which you can set in the <wintitle>DITA
          Maps Manager</wintitle> by selecting a topic and selecting <uicontrol>Edit
          properties</uicontrol> from the context menu.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Linking between related topics</title>
      <p>In addition to the relationships between topics that expressed by their place in the
        hierarchy of a map, a topic may be related to other topics in various ways. For instance, a
        task topic may be related to a concept topic that give the background of the task, or to a
        reference topic that provided data needed to complete the task. Task topics may also be
        related to other tasks in a related area, or concepts to related concepts. </p>
      <p>These relationships are expressed at the topic level. That is, the relationships are not
        expressed by links in the body text of the topic. Typically, they are grouped in a list at
        the end of the topic, though this depends on the behavior of the output transform.) DITA
        provides two mechanisms for expressing relationships between topics at the topic level: the
          <codeph>related-links</codeph> section of a topic, and relationship tables in maps. </p>
      <p><ph keyref="product"/> provides tools for inserting related-links and relationship tables.
      </p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Linking in the text of a topic</title>
      <p>DITA supports linking within the text of a topic using the <codeph>xref</codeph> element.
        The destination of the link can be expressed directly using the <codeph>href</codeph>
        attribute or indirectly using the <codeph>keyref</codeph> attribute. If you use the
          <codeph>keyref</codeph> attribute, you link to a key rather than directly to a topic. That
        key is then assigned to a topic in a map that includes that topic. This means that you can
        change the destination that a key points to either by profiling the key definition in the
        map or by substituting a different map in the build. </p>
      <p><ph keyref="product"/> provides support for creating both direct links and key links, and
        for assigning keys to topics in a map, and for profiling maps. </p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Managing links</title>
      <p>Links can break for a number of reasons. The topic that a link points to may be renamed or
        removed. A topic may be used in a map that does not include a topic it links to. A topic or
        a key may not exist in a map when a particular profile is applied. The <wintitle>DITA Maps
          Manager</wintitle> provides a way to validate all the links in the document or documents
        described by a map. This can include checking with each of a set of profiling conditions
        applied. </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
