<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_zr1_qcn_vp">
  <title>Pathfinder: Documents and Maps</title>
  <body>
    <p>In DITA, you create documents by collecting topics into maps. </p>
    <section>
      <title>DITA Maps</title>
      <p>A DITA Map organizes a set of topics into a hierarchy. In most output formats, the
        structure of the map becomes the structure of the table of contents. <ph keyref="product"/>
        provides support for creating and managing DITA maps through the <xref
          keyref="dita.edit-maps"><wintitle>DITA Maps Manager</wintitle></xref>. </p>
      <p>To watch a video on DITA editing and DITA Maps Manager view, go to <xref
          href="http://oxygenxml.com/demo/DITA_Editing.html" format="html" scope="external"
          >http://oxygenxml.com/demo/DITA_Editing.html</xref> and <xref
          href="http://oxygenxml.com/demo/DITA_Maps_Manager.html" format="html" scope="external"
          >http://oxygenxml.com/demo/DITA_Maps_Manager.html</xref> respectively.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Book Maps</title>
      <p>A book map is a specialized type of DITA map intended for creating the structure of a book.
      </p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Sub Maps</title>
      <p>You do not have to create an entire publication using a single map. It is generally good
        practice to break up a large publication into several smaller sub maps that are easier to
        manage. You can include a sub map into a main map using a <codeph>mapref</codeph> element.
        You can reuse submaps in different publications by including them in different main maps.
        The DITA Maps Manager provides support or creating and managing sub maps.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Chunking</title>
      <p>By default, many output types will place a single topic on each page. In some cases you may
        want to output multiple topics as a single output page. To support this, DITA provides the
        chunk attribute on a the <codeph>topicref</codeph> element in a map.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
