<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="eppo-pathfinder-documents">
  <title>Working with DITA Maps</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>DITA<indexterm>Maps</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>In the DITA standard architecture you create documents by collecting topics into maps. </p>
    <section id="dita_maps">
      <title>DITA Maps</title>
      <p>A <xref keyref="glossentry_ditamap"><term>DITA map</term></xref> organizes a set of topics
        into a hierarchy. In most output formats, the structure of the map becomes the structure of
        the table of contents. <ph keyref="product"/> provides support for <xref
          href="creating-dita-map.dita#creating-dita-map">creating</xref> and <xref
          href="eppo-manage-map.dita#eppo-manage-map">managing <term>DITA maps</term></xref> through
        the <xref href="dita-maps-manager.dita#dita-maps-manager"><uicontrol>DITA Maps
            Manager</uicontrol></xref>. There are also specialized types of <term>DITA maps</term>,
        such as a <xref keyref="glossentry_bookmap"><term>bookmap</term></xref>, which is intended
        for creating the structure of a book.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="submaps">
      <title>Submaps</title>
      <p>You do not have to create an entire publication using a single map. It is generally good
        practice to break up a large publication into several smaller <xref keyref="dita_submaps"
          >submaps</xref> that are easier to manage. You can reuse submaps in multiple publications
        by including them in each of the main maps. The <xref
          href="dita-maps-manager.dita#dita-maps-manager"><uicontrol>DITA Maps
          Manager</uicontrol></xref> provides support for easily creating and managing submaps.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="opening_a_dita_map">
      <title>Opening a DITA Map</title>
      <p>There are several ways to open a <term>DITA map</term> and you can choose to open it in the
          <xref href="dita-maps-manager.dita#dita-maps-manager"><uicontrol>DITA Maps
            Manager</uicontrol></xref> or in the XML Editor. Use any of the following methods to
        open a map:<ul>
          <li>To open a submap in its own tab in the <uicontrol>DITA Maps Manager</uicontrol>,
            simply double-click it (or right-click it and select <uicontrol>Open</uicontrol>).</li>
          <li id="open-map-editor-li">To open a map in the XML editor from the <uicontrol>DITA Maps
              Manager</uicontrol>, right-click it and select <uicontrol>Open Map in
              Editor</uicontrol>.</li>
          <li>Drag a <term>DITA map</term> file from your system browser and drop it in the XML
            editor. This will open the map in the editor.</li>
          <li product="author editor">If you open a file with the <filepath>.ditamap</filepath> or
              <filepath>.bookmap</filepath> extension (from the <xref
              href="../topics/using-the-project-view.dita#using-the-project-view"
                ><uicontrol>Project</uicontrol> view</xref> or a system browser), a dialog box is
            opened that offers you the choice of opening it in the XML editor or in the
              <uicontrol>DITA Maps Manager</uicontrol>.<note>If you select the <uicontrol>Do not
                show the dialog again</uicontrol> option, it will always be opened in the method
              that you choose and you will not be asked in the future. However, you can reset this
              by selecting <uicontrol>Always ask</uicontrol> for the <xref
                href="preferences-dita.dita#preferences-dita/when-opening-dlentry"><uicontrol>When
                  opening a map</uicontrol> option in the <uicontrol>DITA</uicontrol> preferences
                page</xref>.</note></li>
          <li product="author editor">To open a map in the <uicontrol>DITA Maps Manager</uicontrol>,
            you can right-click a map file in the <xref
              href="../topics/using-the-project-view.dita#using-the-project-view"
                ><uicontrol>Project</uicontrol> view</xref> and select <menucascade>
              <uicontrol>Open with</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>DITA Maps Manager</uicontrol>
            </menucascade>.</li>
          <li product="authorEclipse editorEclipse">To open a map in the <uicontrol>DITA Maps
              Manager</uicontrol>, you can right-click a map file in the <xref
              href="using-the-project-view.dita#using-the-project-view"
                ><uicontrol>Navigator</uicontrol> view</xref> and select <uicontrol>Open in DITA
              Maps Manager</uicontrol>.</li>
          <li product="author editor">If you have a <term>DITA map</term> file open in the XML
            editor, you can open it in the <uicontrol>DITA Maps Manager</uicontrol> by
            right-clicking the title tab and selecting <uicontrol>Open in DITA Maps Manager
              View</uicontrol>.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section id="chunking_dita_maps">
      <title>Chunking DITA Maps</title>
      <p>By default, many output types place a single topic on each output page. In some cases you
        may want to <xref keyref="dita_chunking">output multiple topics as a single output page
          (also known as chunking)</xref>. To support this, <ph keyref="product"/> provides an <xref
          href="dita-edit-properties.dita#dita-edit-properties"><uicontrol>Edit
            Properties</uicontrol> dialog box</xref> that allows you to easily configure the
        attributes of a topic to control how your table of contents and topics are rendered in the
        output.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="validating_a_map">
      <title>Validating a Map</title>
      <p>You should <xref href="dita-map-validate.dita#dita-map-validate">validate your maps</xref>
        to make sure that the individual topics are valid and that the relationships between them
        are working. <ph keyref="product"/> provides a validation function for <term>DITA
          maps</term> that performs a comprehensive validation of a map and its topics.</p>
    </section>
    <p>For more information about DITA editing, watch our video demonstration:</p>
    <p><object width="450" height="250" data="https://www.youtube.com/embed/t2cG3Xe1TXY"
        outputclass="iframe">
        <param name="allowfullscreen" value="true"/>
      </object></p>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist><title>Related Information:</title><link href="author-dita-map-doc-type.dita#author-dita-map-doc-type"/><link href="author-dita-map-extensions.dita#author-dita-map-extensions"/></linklist>
    
  </related-links>
</topic>
