<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_awq_v2l_vp">
  <title>Pathfinder: Metadata</title>
  <body>
    <p>Metadata is a broad concept that describes data the explains or identifies other data.
      Metadata can be used for many purposes, from driving automation of document builds to enabling
      authors and readers to find content more easily. DITA provides a number of types of metadata,
      each of which has different uses and is created in different places and in different ways.
      Some of the most important forms of metadata in DITA are: </p>
    <section>
      <title>Topic metadata</title>
      <p>Topic metadata describes the topic and what it is about. Topic metadata can be inserted in
        the <codeph>prolog</codeph> element of a topic or inside the topicref element that points to
        a topic from a map. In other words, metadata about the topic can be asserted by the topic
        itself, or can be assigned to it by the map that includes it in the build. This allows
        different maps to assign different metadata to the same topic. This may be appropriate where
        you want to describe a topic differently in different documents.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Taxonomy and subject scheme</title>
      <p>A taxonomy is a controlled vocabulary. It can be used to standardize the way in which many
        things in your content and metadata are named. This consistency in naming can help ensure
        that automated process work correctly and that consistent terminology is used in content,
        and in metadata. In DITA, taxonomies are created using subject scheme maps. </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
