<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="eppo-hierarchical-linking">
  <title>Hierarchical Linking in DITA</title>
  <body>
    <p>To create hierarchical linking between the topics in a DITA map, you set the appropriate
      value of the <codeph>collection-type</codeph> attribute on the map. See the <xref
        href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.2/os/spec/DITA1.2-spec.html" format="html"
        scope="external">DITA documentation</xref> for the meaning of each of the values of the
        <codeph>collection-type</codeph> attribute.</p>
    <note>The decision for when and how to create hierarchical links is made by the publishing
      scripts. The <codeph>collection-type</codeph> attribute does not force a particular style of
      linking. Rather, it declares what the nature of the relationship is between the topics. The
      publishing scripts use that information to decide how to link topics. Scripts for different
      types of media may make different decisions depending on what is appropriate for the media.
      You can provide additional instructions to the scripts using the <codeph>linking</codeph>
      attribute.</note>
    <p>To add the <codeph>collection-type</codeph> to an item in a map:</p>
    <ol id="ol_bpt_fqg_1q">
      <li>Right-click on the topic and choose <uicontrol>Edit Properties...</uicontrol>. The
          <uicontrol>Edit Reference</uicontrol> dialog box is displayed.</li>
      <li>Select the appropriate value from the <uicontrol>Collection type</uicontrol> drop-down
        list.</li>
    </ol>
    <p>The <uicontrol>Edit Reference</uicontrol> dialog box does not include the
        <codeph>linking</codeph> attribute. To add a <codeph>linking</codeph> attribute:</p>
    <ol id="ol_hv2_tqg_1q">
      <li>Right-click on the map icon in the <wintitle>DITA Maps Manager</wintitle> and select
          <uicontrol>Open Map in Editor</uicontrol>. The map is opened in the editing area. </li>
      <li>You can add the <codeph>linking</codeph> attribute in <xref keyref="mode_author"
            ><uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode</xref> by placing the caret on the topic reference
        and pressing <uicontrol>Alt+Enter</uicontrol>, or you can edit it in <xref
          keyref="mode_text"><uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode</xref> by adding the attribute to the
        appropriate reference element (a <codeph>topic-ref</codeph> element in most cases). </li>
    </ol>
  </body>
</topic>

