<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="eppo-pathfinder-output">
  <title>DITA Output</title>
  <body>
    <p>In DITA, you create output by running a transformation on a DITA map. Transformations for
      various types of output are provided by the DITA Open Toolkit. <ph keyref="product"/> provides
      support for configuring and running transformation using transformation scenarios. </p>
    <note><ph keyref="product"/> does not create any output formats itself. <ph keyref="product"/>
      runs externally defined transformations that produce output, and displays the result in the
      appropriate application, but the output itself is produced by the external transformation, not
      by <ph keyref="product"/>.</note>
    <section>
      <title><?oxy_comment_start author="steven_higgs" timestamp="20150617T110551+0300" comment="Merge this section into &quot;Customizing DITA Transformations&quot;"?>Customizing
        Outputs</title>
      <?oxy_comment_end?>
      <p>You can customize the appearance of any of the output types by customizing the output
        transformations. There are two ways to do this:</p>
      <ol id="ul_ftq_nmt_vp">
        <li>Most transformations are configurable by passing parameters to the transformation
          script. <ph keyref="product"/> allows you to set parameters on a transformation scenario
          and save the parameters for future use. It can also allow you to prompt for a parameter
          whenever a transformation scenario is run. You can set up more than one transformation
          scenario for a given output type, which allows you to maintain several customized
          transformation scenarios for different types of output configurations.</li>
        <li>If you want to customize an output in a way not supported by the customization options,
          you can create a modified version of the transformation code. Some transformation scripts
          export specific forms of extension or customization. You should consult the SPFE Open
          Toolkit for the transformation type that you are interested in to see what customization
          options it supports. <ph product="editor editorEclipse"><ph keyref="product"/> provides
            full editing and
            <?oxy_comment_start author="steven_higgs" timestamp="20150828T110134+0300" comment="Link to debugging topic"?>debugging
            support from XSLT and CSS stylesheets<?oxy_comment_end?>, which you can use to modify
            transformation code.</ph>
        </li>
      </ol>
      <p>You can also write your own output transformation scripts to produce a type of output not
        supported by the DITA Open Toolkit. <ph product="editor editorEclipse"><ph keyref="product"
          /> provides a
          <?oxy_comment_start author="steven_higgs" timestamp="20150828T110230+0300" comment="Should have a link here but I have no idea what he was referring to"?>full
          development environment<?oxy_comment_end?> for developing such transformations. </ph>You
        can create <ph keyref="product"/> transformation scenarios to run these scripts once they
        are complete.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>

