<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_z3z_gfl_vp">
  <title>Pathfinder: Topics and Topic Structure</title>
  <body>
    <p>DITA is a structured writing format. Structure can have several meanings, all of which are
      relevant to DITA.</p>
    <section><title>Rhetorical or literary structure</title>The rhetorical or literary structure of
      work refers to how the words and images are selected and organized to convey information. One
      approach to structured writing is to divide content into discrete blocks containing different
      types of information, and then to combine those block to form publications. DITA is based on
      this approach, and encourages the writer to write in discrete blocks called topics. DITA
      provides three base topic types, concept, task, and reference, a number of extended topic
      types, and the capability to create new topic types through specialization. </section>
    <section>
      <title>Text structure</title>
      <p>Every piece of text is made up of certain text structures, such as paragraphs, lists, and
        tables. Every authoring system must support a range of text structures. DITA supports text
        structures through XML elements such as <codeph>p</codeph>, <codeph>ol</codeph>, and
          <codeph>simple-table</codeph>. Becasue you may want the same text structures to be
        presented very differently in different media, it is important to have a degree of
        abstraction in text structures. </p>
    </section>
    <section><title>Semantic structure</title>Semantic structure is structure that shows the meaning
      of things. Semantic structure is important in a structured writing system because it allows
      both authors and readers to find content and because it allow processing scripts to process
      different pieces of content differently based on their role or meaning. This can be used to do
      things like filtering content related to a specific product so that you can produce
      documentation on many products from the same source.<p>There can be many forms of semantics
        captured in a document set. DITA captures some of these in topics and some of them in maps.
        If you are using a CMS, it may capture additional semantics.</p></section>
    <section>
      <title>Document semantics</title>
      <p>Documents consist of a number of different elements which may be made up of the same basic
        text structures as the rest of the text, but which have a special function within the
        structure of the document. For instance, both tables of contents and indexes are lists, but
        they play a special role in the document. Chapters and sections are just sequences of
        paragraphs and other text structures, yet they are meaningful in the structure of the
        document. In some cases, such as indexes and tables of contents again, these structures can
        be generated from semantic information embedded in the source. For instance, a table of
        content can be built by reading the titles of chapters and sections. DITA provides elements
        to describe common document semantics. </p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Information type semantics</title>
      <p>DITA is based on information typing theory. Each DITA topic type is supposed to represent a
        different information type, and each DITA topic is supposed to correspond to its type. Each
        element of an information type has a specific meaning within that information type. For
        instance, a step has a specific meaning withing a procedure. </p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Subject-matter semantics</title>
      <p>In some cases, the semantics of the content relate directly to the subject matter that the
        content describes. For instance, DITA supports tags that allow you to mark a piece of text
        as the name of a window in a software application (<codeph>wintitle</codeph>) or to make a
        piece of text as applying only to a particular product.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Audience semantics</title>
      <p>In some cases the semantics of the content relate to the audience that it is addressed to.
        For instance, a topic might be addressed to a particular role or to a person with a
        particular level of experience. </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
