<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="eppo-pathfinder-structure">
  <title>Working with DITA Topics</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>DITA<indexterm>Topics</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>DITA is a structured writing format. Structure can have several meanings, all of which are
      relevant to DITA. This section includes information about working with DITA topics and the
      structure.</p>
    <section id="information_types">
      <title>Information Types</title>
      <p>The structure of a piece of content refers to how the words and images are selected and
        organized to convey information. One approach to structured writing is to divide content
        into discrete blocks that contain various types of information, and then to combine those
        blocks to form publications. DITA is based on this approach, and encourages the author to
        write in discrete blocks called topics. DITA provides three base topic types (concept, task,
        and reference), a number of extended topic types, and the capability to create new topic
        types through specialization.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="text_structure">
      <title>Text Structure</title>
      <p>Every piece of text is made up of certain text structures, such as paragraphs, lists, and
        tables. DITA supports text structures through XML elements such as <codeph>p</codeph>,
          <codeph>ol</codeph>, and <codeph>simpletable</codeph>. <xref
            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/dita/1.3/specs/" format="html"
          scope="external">The DITA markup</xref> specifies the text structures, but not how they
        will be published in various types of media. The formatting of text structures is determined
        by the output transformations and may be customized to meet the needs of various
        organizations and type of media. </p>
    </section>
    <section id="semantic_structure">
      <title>Semantic Structure</title>
      <p>Semantic structure is structure that shows the meaning of things. For example:<ul
          id="ul_jnh_kk5_1q">
          <li>A <codeph>task</codeph> element specifies that a block of content contains the
            description of a task.</li>
          <li>A <codeph>codeblock</codeph> element specifies that a block of text consists of
            programming code.</li>
          <li>A <codeph>uicontrol</codeph> element specifies that a word is the name of a control in
            a computer GUI.</li>
          <li>The <codeph>platform</codeph> profiling attribute specifies that a particular piece of
            content applies only to certain computing platforms.</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p>Semantic structure is important in a structured writing system because it allows both
        authors and readers to find content, and it allows processing scripts to process various
        pieces of content differently, based on their role or meaning. This can be used to do things
        such as filtering content related to a specific product so that you can produce
        documentation on many products from the same source.</p>
      <p>There can be many forms of semantics captured in a document set. DITA captures some of
        these in topics and some of them in maps. If you are using a CMS, it may capture additional
        semantics.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="document_semantics">
      <title>Document Semantics</title>
      <p>Documents consist of elements that may be made up of the same basic text structures as the
        rest of the text, but have a special function within the structure of the document. For
        instance, both tables of contents and indexes are lists, but they play a special role in the
        document. Chapters and sections are just sequences of paragraphs and other text structures,
        yet they are meaningful in the structure of the document. In some cases, such as indexes and
        tables of contents, these structures can be generated from semantic information embedded in
        the source. For instance, a table of contents can be built by reading the titles of chapters
        and sections. DITA provides elements to describe common document semantics. </p>
    </section>
    <section id="subject_matter_semantics">
      <title>Subject Matter Semantics</title>
      <p>In some cases, the semantics of the content relate directly to the subject matter that the
        content describes. For instance, DITA supports tags that allow you to mark a piece of text
        as the name of a window in a software application (<codeph>wintitle</codeph>), or to mark a
        piece of text as applying only to a particular product.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="audience_semantics">
      <title>Audience Semantics</title>
      <p>In some cases, the semantics of the content relate to the audience that it is addressed to.
        For instance, a topic might be addressed to a particular role, or to a person with a
        particular level of experience. DITA provides an <codeph>audience</codeph> element to
        capture audience metadata.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="creating_topic_structures">
      <title>Creating Topic Structures</title>
      <p><ph keyref="product"/> provides a number of tools to help you create topic structures:<ul
          id="ul_j4r_yl5_1q">
          <li><xref keyref="glossentry_content-completion-assistant"><term>Content Completion
                Assistant</term></xref> - Shows you which elements can be created at the current
            position.</li>
          <li><xref href="model-panel.dita#model-panel"><uicontrol>Model</uicontrol> view</xref> -
            Shows you the complete structure supported by the current element.</li>
          <li><xref href="author-outline-view.dita#author-outline-view"
                ><uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol> view</xref> - Shows you the current structure of
            your document.</li>
          <li><uicontrol>DITA</uicontrol> toolbar - Helps you to easily insert many common
            structures.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist><title>Related Information:</title><link href="eppo-first-dita-topic.dita#eppo-first-dita-topic"/><link href="author-dita-doc-type.dita#author-dita-doc-type"/></linklist>
    
  </related-links>
</topic>
