<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="eppo.pathfinder.reuse">
  <title>Pathfinder: Reuse</title>
  <body>
    <p>Reusing content is one of the key features of DITA. DITA provide a number of different
      methods for reusing content. <ph keyref="product"/> provides support for each of these
      methods.</p>
    <section>
      <title>Reusing topics</title>
      <p>A DITA topic does not belong to any one publication. You add a DITA topic to a publication
        by referring to it in a map. You can refer to the same topic in more than one map. </p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Reusing content elements</title>
      <p>DITA allows you to reuse a content element by referring to it in another topic. DITA
        provides two mechanisms for including content by reference: conrefs and conkeyrefs. A conref
        creates a direct reference to an specific element of another topic. A conkeyref creates a
        reference to a key, which in turn points to a specific element of another topic. The
        advantage of using conkeyrefs is that you can change the element that is included by
        changing the key reference. For example, since keys are defined in maps, a different key
        reference will be used when you include you topic in a different map. </p>
      <p><ph keyref="product"/> provides support for both conrefs and conkeyrefs. </p>
      <p>While the conref and conkeyref mechanisms can be used to refer to any content element, it
        is a best practice to only conref or conkeyref content that is specifically set and managed
        as reusable content. This helps reduce expensive errors, such as an author accidentally
        deleting the source element that other topics are including by conref. <ph keyref="product"
        /> can help you create a reusable component from your current content. </p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Reusing content with conditions</title>
      <p>DITA allows you to conditionally profile parts of a topic so that different parts of the
        topic are shown when different profiling conditions are set. Profiling conditions can be set
        both within topics and in maps. When set in a topic, they allow you to suppress an element
        such a paragraph, a step in a procedure, an item in a list, or even a phrase within a
        sentence. When set in a map, they allow you to suppress an entire topic or group of topics.
        You can then create a different publication from a single map by applying different
        profiling conditions to the build. </p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Reusing content with variables</title>
      <p>DITA allows you to replace the content of certain elements with the value pointed to by a
        key. This effectively means that you can create variables in your content, which you can
        then output with different values by changing the value the key points to. This is done by
        profiling the definition of the key value, or by substituting a different map with different
        key values defined. </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
