<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="eppo.dita.hierachical-linking">
  <title>Hierarchical Linking in DITA</title>
  <body>
    <p>To create hierarchical linking between the topics in a DITA map, you set the appropriate
      value of the collection-type attribute on the map. See the DITA documentation for the meaning
      of each of the values of the collection-type attribute. </p>
    <note>Note that the decision on when and how to create hierarchical links is made by the
      publishing scripts. The <codeph>collection-type</codeph> attribute does not force a particular
      style of linking. Rather, it declares what the nature of the relationship is between the
      topics. The publishing scripts use that information to decide how to link topics. Scripts for
      different media may make different decisions depending on what is appropriate for the media.
      You can provide additional instructions to the scripts using the <codeph>linking</codeph>
      attribute.</note>
    <p>To add the collection-type to an item in a map:</p>
    <ol id="ol_bpt_fqg_1q">
      <li>Right click on the topic and choose <uicontrol>Edit Properties...</uicontrol>. The
          <uicontrol>Edit Reference</uicontrol> dialog is displayed.</li>
      <li>Choose the appropriate value from the <uicontrol>Collection type</uicontrol> drop
        down.</li>
    </ol>
    <p>The Edit Reference dialog does not include the linking attribute. To add a linking
      attribute:</p>
    <ol id="ol_hv2_tqg_1q">
      <li>Right click on the map icon in the <wintitle>DITA Maps Manager</wintitle> and choose
          <uicontrol>Open Map in Editor</uicontrol>. The map is opened in the Editor. </li>
      <li>You can add the linking attribute in <xref keyref="mode.author">Author mode</xref> by
        placing the caret on the topic reference and hitting <uicontrol>Alt+Enter</uicontrol> or you
        can edit it in <xref keyref="mode.text">Text mode</xref> by adding the attribute to the
        appropriate reference element (a <uicontrol>topic-ref</uicontrol> element in most cases).
      </li>
    </ol>
  </body>
</topic>
