<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="eppo-create-index">
  <title>Creating an Index in DITA</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>DITA<indexterm>Index creation</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <taskbody>
    <context>
      <p>In DITA, indexes are created from <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements. You can
        insert index term elements in the following:<ul id="ul_tf2_tr1_bq">
          <li><b>The header of a topic:</b> In paginated media, such as a printed book or a PDF,
            this results in an index entry that points to the page where the topic starts, even if
            it is not the page in which the indexed term occurs. </li>
          <li><b>In the <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element in a map that references the
              topic:</b> This applies those index terms to that topic only when used in that map,
            allowing you to index topics differently in various publications. In paginated media,
            index entries point to the page where the topic starts.</li>
          <li><b>In the body of a topic:</b> In paginated media, this results in an index entry that
            points to the page where the <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> element occurs, even if
            that is not the page where the topic starts.</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p>To add index terms to the text of a topic of the topic header, <xref
          keyref="dita_edit-topics">create the elements as you normally would in <ph
            keyref="product"/></xref>. To add index terms to a map, open the map in the editor and
        add the elements, as you normally would, in a topic.</p>
      <p>In some media, indexes will be generated automatically when index entries are found in the
        source. For other media, such as books, you may need to tell DITA where to place the index.
        For instance, to add an index to a <xref keyref="glossentry_bookmap"
          ><term>bookmap</term></xref>, you need to add an <xmlelement>indexlist</xmlelement> element to the
        <xmlelement>backmatter</xmlelement> of the book.</p>
    </context>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Open your <xref keyref="dita_book-map"><term>bookmap</term></xref> in the <xref
            href="dita-maps-manager.dita#dita-maps-manager"><uicontrol>DITA Maps
            Manager</uicontrol></xref>.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Right-click the <term>bookmap</term> and select <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Append Child</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Backmatter</uicontrol>
          </menucascade>.</cmd>
        <stepresult>The <xref href="dita-insert-topic-ref.dita#dita-insert-topic-ref"
              ><uicontrol>Insert Reference</uicontrol> dialog box</xref> appears.</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click <uicontrol>Insert and Close</uicontrol> to insert the <xmlelement>backmatter</xmlelement>
          element.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Right-click the <xmlelement>backmatter</xmlelement> element and create a
          <xmlelement>booklists</xmlelement> element using <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Append Child</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Book Lists</uicontrol>
          </menucascade>.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Use the same steps to create an <xmlelement>indexlist</xmlelement> element. </cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>
    <result>
      <note type="caution">Adding <i>index</i> entries and an <xmlelement>indexlist</xmlelement>
        to your project creates an instruction to the DITA publishing routines to create an index.
        There is no guarantee that all DITA output types or third-party customizations obey that
        instruction or create the index the way you want it. Modifying the output may be necessary
        to get the result you want. </note>
    </result>
  </taskbody>
</task>
