<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="eppo-pathfinder-reuse">
  <title>Reusing DITA Content</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>DITA<indexterm>Reusing content</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_ojm_dgk_54b">Reusing content is one of the key features of DITA and DITA provides several methods for
      reusing content. <ph keyref="product"/> provides support for each of these methods.</p>
    <section id="reusing_topics_in_dita_maps">
      <title>Reusing Topics in DITA Maps</title>
      <p id="p_pjm_dgk_54b">A DITA topic does not belong to any one publication. You add a DITA topic to a publication
        by referencing it in a map. You can <xref href="eppo-reuse-topics.dita">reference the same
          topic in multiple maps</xref>. </p>
    </section>
    <section id="reusing_content_with_references_and_keys">
      <title>Reusing Content with References and Keys</title>
      <p id="p_qjm_dgk_54b">DITA allows you to reuse content by referencing it in another topic.
        DITA provides <xref href="working-with-content-references.dita">several mechanisms for
          including content by reference</xref> (<term>conref</term>, <term>conkeyref</term>,
          <term>coderef</term>). A <xref href="eppo-create-conref.dita"><codeph>conref</codeph>
          (content reference)</xref> creates a direct reference to a specific element of another
        topic. A <xref href="eppo-create-conkeyref.dita"><codeph>conkeyref</codeph> (content key
          reference)</xref> creates a reference to a key, which then points to a specific element in
        another topic. The advantage of using a <term>conkeyref</term> is that you can change the
        element that is included by changing the key reference. For example, since keys are defined
        in maps, if you include a topic in multiple maps, you can use a different key reference in
        each map. A <term>coderef</term> references an external file that contains literal code.</p>
      <p id="p_rjm_dgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> provides support for all of these mechanisms. </p>
      <p id="p_sjm_dgk_54b">While the <term>conref</term> and <term>conkeyref</term> mechanisms can
        be used to reference any content element, it is considered best practice to only
          <term>conref</term> or <term>conkeyref</term> content that is specifically set and managed
        as reusable content. This practice helps reduce expensive errors, such as an author
        accidentally deleting the source element that other topics are including by the reference.
          <ph keyref="product"/> can help you create a reusable component from your current content. </p>
    </section>
    <section id="reusing_content_with_reusable_components">
      <title>Reusing Content with Reusable Components</title>
      <p id="p_tjm_dgk_54b">DITA allows you to select content in a topic, create a <xref
          href="dita-reusable-components.dita">reusable component</xref> from it and reference that
        component in other locations. Each reusable component is created as a separate file. Anytime
        the content needs to be edited, you only need to update it in the component file and all the
        locations in your topics that reference it will also be updated. This can help you to
        maintain continuity and accuracy throughout your documents.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="reusing_content_with_variables">
      <title>Reusing Content with Variables</title>
      <p id="p_ujm_dgk_54b">DITA allows you to replace the content of certain elements with a value that is pointed to
        by a key. This mechanism effectively means that you can <xref href="eppo-variables.dita"
          >create variables in your content</xref>, which you can then create multiple outputs by
        changing the value that the key points to. This is done by profiling the definition of the
        key value, or by substituting another map with a different key value.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="reusing_content_with_dita_13_concepts">
      <title>Reusing Content with DITA 1.3 Concepts</title>
      <p id="p_vjm_dgk_54b">DITA 1.3 allows you to use some advanced concepts to expand content
        reuse possibilities even further. <xref href="dita-keyscopes.dita"><term>Key Scopes</term>
          (or scoped keys)</xref> allow you to reuse topics with variable content depending on the
        particular context and it maximizes reuse possibilities for keys. <xref
          href="dita-branch-filtering.dita"><term>Branch Filtering</term></xref> allows you to reuse
        the same content that is profiled in multiple ways within the same publication, each time
        using a different filter.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="dita_reusable_components_view">
      <title>DITA Reusable Components View</title>
      <p id="p_wjm_dgk_54b">If you use a large amount of keys or reusable components in your DITA project, the <xref
          href="dita-reusable-components-view.dita"><uicontrol>DITA Reusable Components</uicontrol>
          view</xref> can be quite helpful. It collects all of the keys and reusable components that
        are defined in the <xref keyref="glossentry_root-map"><term>root map</term></xref> and
        presents them in a dynamic table where you can easily locate and insert references to
        them.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="reuse_actions_in">
      <title>Reuse Actions in <ph keyref="product"/></title>
      <p id="p_xjm_dgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> includes some actions that are specifically designed for DITA
        reusable content. These actions are available in the contextual menu, the
          <uicontrol>DITA</uicontrol> menu, and some are available on the toolbar.</p>
      <p id="p_yjm_dgk_54b">
        <dl id="dl_zjm_dgk_54b">
          <dlentry conkeyref="reusables-author-actions/dita-insert-content-reference" id="dlentry_akm_dgk_54b">
            <dt/>
            <dd/>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
        <dl id="dl_bkm_dgk_54b">
          <dlentry conkeyref="reusables-author-actions/push-element-dlentry"
            conrefend="../reusables/topics/author-actions.dita#author-actions/insert-reusable-dlentry" id="dlentry_ckm_dgk_54b">
            <dt/>
            <dd/>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_v54_rr5_ypb">
      <title>Resources</title>
      <p id="p_w54_rr5_ypb">For more information about reusing strategies in DITA, see the following
          resources:<ul id="ul_abq_dt5_ypb">
          <li id="li_ug3_4t5_ypb"><xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/events/2020/webinar_working_with_dita_in_oxygen.html"
              format="html" scope="external"><b><b>Webinar: Working with DITA in Oxygen - Basic
                  Profiling and Reuse Strategies</b></b></xref></li>
          <li id="li_bbq_dt5_ypb"><xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/events/2021/webinar_working_with_dita_in_oxygen_advanced_profiling_and_reuse_strategies.html"
              format="html" scope="external"><b><b>Webinar: Working with DITA in Oxygen - Advanced
                  Profiling and Reuse Strategies</b></b></xref></li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
      <link href="eppo-background-keys.dita#eppo-background-keys"/>
  </related-links>
</topic>
