<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="eppo-pathfinder-linking">
  <title>Linking in DITA</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>DITA<indexterm>Linking</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>DITA provides support for various types of linking between topics, some of which is
      automated, while others are specified by the author. <ph keyref="product"/> provides support
      for all forms of linking in DITA.</p>
    <section id="linking_between_parent_child_and_sibling_topics">
      <title>Linking Between Parent, Child, and Sibling Topics</title>
      <p>A <xref keyref="glossentry_ditamap"><term>DITA map</term></xref> creates a hierarchical
        relationship between topics. That relationship map expresses a narrative flow from one topic
        to another, or it may be used as a classification system to help the reader find topics
        based on their classification, without creating a narrative flow. Since there may be various
        types of relationships between topics in a hierarchy, you may want to create links between
        topics in a variety of ways. For instance, if your topics are supposed to be organized into
        a narrative flow, you may want to have links to the next and previous topics in that flow.
        If your topics are part of a hierarchical classification, you may want links from parent to
        child topics, and vice versa, but not to the next and previous topics. </p>
      <p>Parent, child, and sibling links are created automatically by the DITA output
        transformations (and may differ between various output formats). The kinds of links that are
        created are determined by the DITA <xref
          href="dita-edit-properties.dita#dita-edit-properties/collection-type-attr-dlentry"
            ><codeph>collection-type</codeph> attribute</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="inline_linking_in_the_content_of_a_topic">
      <title>In-Line Linking in the Content of a Topic</title>
      <p>DITA supports linking within the text of a topic using the <codeph>xref</codeph> element.
        The destination of the link can be expressed directly using the <codeph>href</codeph>
        attribute or indirectly using the <codeph>keyref</codeph> attribute. If you use the
          <codeph>keyref</codeph> attribute, you link to a key rather than directly to a topic. That
        key is then assigned to a topic in a map that includes that topic. This means that you can
        change the destination that a key points to by editing the key definition in the map or by
        substituting another map in the build. </p>
    </section>
    <section id="linking_between_related_topics">
      <title>Linking Between Related Topics</title>
      <p>In addition to the relationships between topics that expressed by their place in the
        hierarchy of a map, a topic may be related to other topics in various ways. For instance, a
        task topic may be related to a concept topic that gives the background of the task, or to a
        reference topic that provides data needed to complete the task. Task topics may also be
        related to other tasks in a related area, or concepts to related concepts. </p>
      <p>Typically, they are grouped in a list at the end of the topic, although this depends on the
        behavior of the output transformation. DITA provides two mechanisms for expressing
        relationships between topics at the topic level: the <term>related links</term> section of a
        topic and relationship tables in maps. </p>
    </section>
    <section id="managing_links">
      <title>Managing Links</title>
      <p>Links can break for a variety of reasons. The topic that a link points to may be renamed or
        removed. A topic may be used in a map that does not include a linked topic. A topic or a key
        may not exist in a map when a particular profile is applied. The <xref
          href="dita-maps-manager.dita#dita-maps-manager"><uicontrol>DITA Maps
          Manager</uicontrol></xref> provides a way to <xref
          href="dita-map-validate.dita#dita-map-validate">validate all the links in the documents
          that are included in the map</xref>. This can include validating all the profiling
        conditions that are applied. </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
