<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="epub-document-type">
  <title>EPUB Document Type (Framework)</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Built-in frameworks<indexterm>EPUB</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>EPUB document type</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><b>EPUB</b> is an e-book file format that is a ZIP archive and can be downloaded and read on
      devices such as phones, tablets, computers, or e-readers.<ph product="author developer editor">
        <ph keyref="product"/> includes an <xref
          href="archive-browser-view.dita#archive-browser-view"><uicontrol>Archive
            Browser</uicontrol> view</xref> that allows you to view the contents and structure of
        this type of file.</ph><ph product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"> You can
          <xref href="archive-browser-view.dita#archive-browser-view">view the contents and
          structure of this type of file</xref> in the <uicontrol>Navigator</uicontrol> view or main
        editing pane.</ph></p>
    <p>Three distinct <xref keyref="glossentry_framework"><term>frameworks</term></xref> are
      supported for the EPUB document type:<ul>
        <li><uicontrol>NCX</uicontrol> - A declarative global navigation definition. </li>
        <li><uicontrol>OCF</uicontrol> - The Open Container Format (OCF) defines a mechanism by
          which all components of an Open Publication Structure (OPS) can be combined into a single
          file system entity.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>OPF</uicontrol> - The Open Packaging Format (OPF) defines the mechanism by
          which all components of a published work that conforms to the Open Publication Structure
          (OPS) standard (including metadata, reading order, and navigational information) are
          packaged in an OPS Publication. <note><ph keyref="product"/> supports OPF 2.0, OPF 3.0,
            and OPF 3.1.</note></li>
      </ul></p>
    <section id="file_definition">
      <title>File Definition</title>
      <p>A file is considered to be an <i>EPUB</i> document if it has a file extension of
          <filepath>.epub</filepath>. </p>
    </section>
    <section id="document_templates">
      <title>Default Document Templates</title>
      <p>There are a variety of default <i>EPUB</i> templates available when creating <xref
          href="new-dialog-sa.dita#new-dialog-sa" product="author developer editor">new documents
          from templates</xref><xref href="creating-from-templates.dita#creating-from-templates"
          product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">new documents from templates</xref>
        and they can be found the following folders in <uicontrol>Framework Templates</uicontrol>:
          <uicontrol>NCX</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>OCF</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>OPF 2.0</uicontrol>,
          <uicontrol>OPF 3.0</uicontrol>, and <uicontrol>OPF 3.1</uicontrol>.</p>
      <p>
        <ul>
          <li>The default templates for the <b>NCX</b> document types are located in the
                <filepath><term conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
              />/frameworks/ncx/templates</filepath> folder.</li>
          <li>The default templates for the <b>OCF</b> document types are located in the
                <filepath><term conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
              />/frameworks/ocf/templates</filepath> folder.</li>
          <li>The default template for the <b>OPF 2.0</b> document type is located in the
                <filepath><term conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
              />/frameworks/opf/templates/2.0</filepath> folder.</li>
          <li>The default template for the <b>OPF 3.0</b> document type is located in the
                <filepath><term conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
              />/frameworks/opf/templates/3.0</filepath> folder.</li>
          <li>The default template for the <b>OPF 3.1</b> document type is located in the
                <filepath><term conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
              />/frameworks/opf/templates/3.1</filepath> folder.</li>
        </ul>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="default_schema">
      <title>Default Schema</title>
      <p>The default schema files for the various types of EPUB document types are located in the
        following directories:</p>
      <p>
        <ul>
          <li>The default schema files for the <b>NCX</b> document types are located in the
                <filepath><term conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
              />/frameworks/ncx/schemas</filepath> folder.</li>
          <li>The default schema files for the <b>OCF</b> document types are located in the
                <filepath><term conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
              />/frameworks/ocf/schemas</filepath> folder.</li>
          <li>The default schema files for the <b>OPF 2.0</b> document type is located in the
                <filepath><term conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
              />/frameworks/opf/schemas/2.0</filepath> folder.</li>
          <li>The default schema files for the <b>OPF 3.0</b> document type is located in the
                <filepath><term conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
              />/frameworks/opf/schemas/3.0</filepath> folder.</li>
          <li>The default schema files for the <b>OPF 3.1</b> document type is located in the
                <filepath><term conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
              />/frameworks/opf/schemas/3.1</filepath> folder.</li>
        </ul>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist><title>Related Information:</title><link href="working-with-epub.dita#working-with-epub"/></linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
