<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="example-signing-files">
  <title>Example of How to Digitally Sign XML Files or Content</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Digital Signatures <indexterm>Example of how to digitally sign XML
            content</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <taskbody>
    <context>
      <p>Suppose you want to digitally sign an XML document, but more specifically, suppose you have
        multiple instances of the same element in the document and you just want to sign a specific
        ID. <ph keyref="product"/> includes a signature tool that allows you to digitally sign XML
        documents or specific content.</p>
      <p> The <ph keyref="product"/> installation directory includes a <filepath>samples</filepath>
        folder that contains a file called <filepath>personal.xml</filepath>. For the purposes of
        this example, this file will be used to demonstrate how to digitally sign specific content.
        Notice that this file has multiple <codeph>person</codeph> elements inside the
          <codeph>personnel</codeph> element. Suppose you want to digitally sign the specific
          <codeph>person</codeph> element that contains the <codeph>id=robert.taylor</codeph>. To do
        this, follow this procedure:</p>
    </context>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Open the <filepath>personal.xml</filepath> file in <ph keyref="product"/> in
            <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> editing mode.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Right-click anywhere in the editor and select the <uicontrol>Sign</uicontrol> action
          from the <uicontrol>Source</uicontrol> submenu.</cmd>
        <stepresult>The <uicontrol>Sign</uicontrol> dialog box is displayed.<note type="tip"
            product="author developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse">If you want to sign a
            file but create a new output file so that the original file remains unchanged, use the
              <uicontrol>Sign</uicontrol> action from the <uicontrol
              product="author developer editor">Tools</uicontrol><uicontrol
              product="developerEclipse editorEclipse">XML Tools</uicontrol> menu. Selecting the
            action from this menu will allow you to choose an input file and output file in the
              <uicontrol>Sign</uicontrol> dialog box.</note></stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>If <ph keyref="product"/> cannot find a valid certificate, click the link at the top of
          the dialog box to <uicontrol>configure a valid certificate</uicontrol>. This opens the
            <xref href="preferences-certificates.dita#preferences-certificates"
              ><uicontrol>XML Signing Certificates</uicontrol> preferences page</xref> that allows
          you to configure and validate a certificate.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Once a valid certificate is recognized, continue to configure the
            <uicontrol>Sign</uicontrol> dialog box.</cmd>
        <substeps id="substeps_ilx_1dr_cs">
          <substep>
            <cmd>Select one of <xref
                href="signing-files.dita#signing-files/transformation-options-li">the
                  <uicontrol>Transformation Options</uicontrol></xref>. For the purposes of this
              example, select the <uicontrol>Inclusive with comments</uicontrol> option.</cmd>
          </substep>
          <substep>
            <cmd>Specify the appropriate <uicontrol>XPath</uicontrol> expression for the specific
              element that needs to be signed. For this example, type
                <codeph>/personnel/person</codeph> in the <uicontrol>XPath</uicontrol> text
              box.</cmd>
          </substep>
          <substep>
            <cmd>Enter the specific <uicontrol>ID</uicontrol> that needs to be signed. For this
              example, type <codeph>robert.taylor</codeph> in the <uicontrol>ID</uicontrol>
              field.</cmd>
          </substep>
          <substep>
            <cmd>Select <xref href="signing-files.dita#signing-files/envelope-li">the
                  <uicontrol>Envelope</uicontrol> option</xref> and leave the other options as their
              default values.</cmd>
          </substep>
        </substeps>
        <stepresult>The digital signature is added at the end of the XML document, just before the
          end tag. It is always added at the end of the document, even if you only sign specific
          content within the document. </stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>You can verify the signature by choosing the <uicontrol>Verify Signature</uicontrol>
          action from the <uicontrol>Source</uicontrol> submenu of the contextual menu.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>
  </taskbody>
  <related-links>
    <linklist><title>Related Information:</title><link href="digital-signature-overview.dita#digital-signature-overview"/>
    <link href="signing-files.dita#signing-files"/>
    <link href="verifying-signature.dita#verifying-signature"/></linklist>
  </related-links>
</task>
