<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="example-uppercase-plugin">
  <title>Example - A Selection Plugin</title><prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>Develop an &lt;oXygen/&gt; Plugin<indexterm>example -
            <apiname>UppercasePlugin</apiname></indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>The following plugin is called <apiname>UppercasePlugin</apiname> and is an example of 
      <xref href="../concepts/selection-plugin.dita#selection-plugin" format="dita"
        product="author editor">selection plugin.</xref>
      <ph product="authorSDK authorEclipse editorEclipse">selection plugin.</ph>
      It is used in <ph keyref="product"/>
      for capitalizing the characters in the current selection. This example consists of two Java
      classes and the plugin descriptor:</p>
    <ul>
      <li><filepath>UppercasePlugin.java</filepath>:<codeblock outputclass="language-java">
package ro.sync.sample.plugin.uppercase;

import ro.sync.exml.plugin.Plugin;
import ro.sync.exml.plugin.PluginDescriptor;

public class UppercasePlugin extends Plugin {
    /**
    * Plugin instance.
    */
    private static UppercasePlugin instance = null;  
    
    /**
    * UppercasePlugin constructor.
    * 
    * @param descriptor Plugin descriptor object.
    */
    public UppercasePlugin(PluginDescriptor descriptor) {
        super(descriptor);
    
        if (instance != null) {
            throw new IllegalStateException("Already instantiated !");
        }    
        instance = this;
    }
    
    /**
    * Get the plugin instance.
    * 
    * @return the shared plugin instance.
    */
    public static UppercasePlugin getInstance() {
        return instance;
    }
}
</codeblock></li>
      <li><filepath>UppercasePluginExtension.java</filepath>:<codeblock outputclass="language-java">
package ro.sync.sample.plugin.uppercase;

import ro.sync.exml.plugin.selection.SelectionPluginContext;
import ro.sync.exml.plugin.selection.SelectionPluginExtension;
import ro.sync.exml.plugin.selection.SelectionPluginResult;
import ro.sync.exml.plugin.selection.SelectionPluginResultImpl;

public class UppercasePluginExtension implements SelectionPluginExtension {
    /**
    * Convert the text to uppercase.
    *
    *@param  context  Selection context.
    *@return          Uppercase plugin result.
    */
    public SelectionPluginResult process(SelectionPluginContext context) {
        return new SelectionPluginResultImpl(
            context.getSelection().toUpperCase());
    }
}
</codeblock></li>
      <li><filepath>plugin.xml</filepath>:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">
&lt;!DOCTYPE plugin SYSTEM "../plugin.dtd"&gt;
&lt;plugin
    name="UpperCase"
    description="Convert the selection to uppercase"
    version="1.0.0"
    vendor="SyncRO"
    class="ro.sync.sample.plugin.uppercase.UppercasePlugin"&gt;
    &lt;runtime&gt;
        &lt;library name="lib/uppercase.jar"/&gt;
    &lt;/runtime&gt;
    &lt;extension type="selectionProcessor" 
     class="ro.sync.sample.plugin.uppercase.UppercasePluginExtension"/&gt;
&lt;/plugin&gt;
</codeblock></li>
    </ul>
  </body>
</topic>