<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="extra-oxygen-free-dita-ot-plugins">
  <title>Extra Free Publishing Plugins</title>
  <body>
    <p>The DITA Open Toolkit publishing engine comes with support for predefined output formats such
      as HTM5, PDF, and Eclipse Help. Since the architecture of the publishing engine is
      plugin-based, over time, <xref
        href="https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Adita-ot-plugin+org%3Aoxygenxml&amp;type=Repositories"
        format="html" scope="external">lots of useful plugins</xref> were developed in the <b>Oxygen
        XML GitHub</b> account that enhance the publishing and some of them are listed below. The
      plugins that are already installed within the DITA-OT engine that comes bundled with <ph
        keyref="product"/> are listed with a <b>[Bundled]</b> marker.</p>
    <section id="section_xf3_zjh_jhb">
      <title>Plugin that Converts DITA Maps to PDF Using CSS 3 [Bundled]</title>
      <p>You can use <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-ot-css-pdf" format="html"
          scope="external">this very popular plugin</xref> to publish DITA to PDF output using CSS.
        As the publishing engine, it can use the <b>Oxygen XML Chemistry</b> processor (freely
        bundled with <b>Oxygen XML Editor</b>), the Antenna House engine, or the Prince XML
        engine.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_nnd_lkh_jhb">
      <title>DITA Metrics Report [Bundled]</title>
      <p>This is a very useful <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-ot-metrics"
          format="html" scope="external">open-source plugin</xref> can be used to generate an HTML
        report from an existing DITA project and contains a lot of useful information, including:
          <ul id="ul_tz1_xkh_jhb">
          <li>Total number of maps and topics that are part of the project.</li>
          <li>Total number of elements used in topics and maps along with a table presenting all
            element names and their usage counter.</li>
          <li>The used elements for each DITA domain.</li>
          <li>Total number of attributes used in topics and maps along with a table presenting all
            attribute names and their usage counter.</li>
          <li>Statistics about the conditional attributes used in the project.</li>
          <li>Information about content reuse.</li>
          <li>Text and content statistics, including both total words (word count) and unique words
            (vocabulary).</li>
          <li>List of largest and smallest topics and the number of words each one uses.</li>
          <li>Listing of all links to resources outside of the project.</li>
          <li>A <xref
              href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-ot-metrics/blob/master/README.md#visualizing-the-evolution-of-metrics-between-different-versions-of-the-documentation"
              format="html" scope="external">metrics evolution report</xref> between different
            versions of your documentation.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_ynk_gkh_jhb">
      <title>Export DITA Map Plugin [Bundled]</title>
      <p>You can use <xref
        href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-export-map#export-dita-map-plugin" format="html"
        scope="external">this free plugin</xref> to create a ZIP file from your entire DITA
        project. The plugin also takes filters/profiling into account when including topics.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_fdh_wmh_jhb">
      <title>Publish DITA Content with References to Video and Audio Resources. [Bundled]</title>
      <p>A <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-media-support" format="html"
          scope="external">DITA Open Toolkit plugin</xref> can be used to convert the DITA
          <xmlelement>object</xmlelement> element to various HTML 5 structures (such as
          &lt;<xmlelement>video</xmlelement>, <xmlelement>audio</xmlelement>, or
          <xmlelement>iframe</xmlelement>).</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_omr_yxd_5jb">
      <title>Show Consecutive Codeblocks in Multiple Tabs for WebHelp Output</title>
      <p>This <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-wh-codeblock-tabs" format="html"
          scope="external">open-source plugin</xref> can be used to display consecutive DITA
          <xmlelement>codeblock</xmlelement> elements in separate tabs.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_zf3_v4h_jhb">
      <title>Add Edit Links in HTML or PDF-based Output [Bundled]</title>
      <p>This <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-reviewer-links" format="html"
          scope="external">plugin</xref> can be used to add edit links in HTML or PDF-based output
        that allows subject matter experts to offer feedback for the published content directly in
        the source using a DITA web editing tool (such as <b>Oxygen XML Web Author</b>).</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_qsh_nph_jhb">
      <title>Create a Single Merged XML Document From an Entire DITA Project [Bundled]</title>
      <p>This <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-merged" format="html" scope="external"
          >plugin</xref> can be used to produce a merged output from the entire DITA map structure
        without further processing. It is useful if you want to further process the merged XML
        document for producing various reports.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_xqz_wph_jhb">
      <title>Dynamically Publish Excel Content as DITA</title>
      <p>A <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-excel" format="html" scope="external">DITA
          Open Toolkit plugin</xref> that can be used to dynamically convert Excel files to DITA
        (Excel files referenced with <codeph>format="excel"</codeph> in DITA maps).</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_jmz_bsm_gjb">
      <title>Dynamically Use JSON Content in DITA Topics</title>
      <p>A <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-json" format="html" scope="external">DITA
          Open Toolkit plugin</xref> that can be used to dynamically convert JSON content to DITA
        (JSON files referenced with <codeph>format="json"</codeph> in DITA maps).</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_nzt_x51_mjb">
      <title>Dynamically Publish ASCIIDoc Content as DITA</title>
      <p>A <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-asciidoc" format="html" scope="external"
          >DITA Open Toolkit plugin</xref> that can be used to dynamically convert ASCIIDoc content
        to DITA (ASCIIDoc files referenced with <codeph>format="ant-parser"</codeph> in DITA
        maps).</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_hlh_1qh_jhb">
      <title>Embed HTML Content in DITA Topics [Bundled]</title>
      <p>A <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-embed-html" format="html" scope="external"
          >plugin</xref> that can be used to embed well-formed HTML content in a DITA topic inside a
        special element. </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_mtc_2qh_jhb">
      <title>Embed LateX Equations in DITA Content</title>
      <p>A <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-latex" format="html" scope="external">DITA
          Open Toolkit plugin</xref> that can be used to publish embedded Latex mathematical
        equations to HTML and PDF.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_dmt_xhp_m3b">
      <title>Embed UML Diagrams in DITA Content</title>
      <p>A <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-plant-uml" format="html" scope="external"
          >DITA Open Toolkit plugin</xref> that can be used to publish embedded UML diagrams
        equations to HTML and PDF.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_lwj_hqh_jhb">
      <title>Float Images in HTML and PDF Outputs</title>
      <p>A <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-image-float" format="html" scope="external"
          >plugin</xref> that can be used to float an image referenced in a DITA topic left or right
        depending on the specified <xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt> attribute value. </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_jf3_jqh_jhb">
      <title>Embed Referenced MathML and SVGZ Images in HTML Output</title>
      <p>A <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-embed-html-mathml-svg" format="html"
          scope="external">DITA Open Toolkit plugin</xref> that can be used to embed referenced
        MathML and SVG images in the HTML5 and XHTML output.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_m3l_tqh_jhb">
      <title>Dynamically Convert DITA Tables to Graphs</title>
      <p>A <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-table-svg" format="html" scope="external"
        >DITA Open Toolkit plugin</xref> that converts DITA tables having a certain structure to
        SVG graphs.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_hmk_glh_jhb">
      <title>Show Oxygen Change Tracking Information in the PDF Output [Bundled]</title>
      <p>This <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-classic-pdf-review" format="html"
          scope="external">plugin</xref> can be used to display <b>Oxygen XML Editor</b> tracked
        changes (insertions, deletions, or comments) in the PDF output.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_azk_tlh_jhb">
      <title>Sample Customization Plugin for Classic PDF (XSL-FO) Output</title>
      <p>This sample DITA Open Toolkit PDF <xref
        href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/com.oxygenxml.pdf2.ug" format="html" scope="external"
        >customization plugin</xref> is a good starting point if you want to:<ul
          id="ul_wkm_2mh_jhb">
          <li>
            <p>Customize fonts.</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Customize a cover page to provide custom logos and coloring.</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Customize page headers and footers.</p>
          </li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_zfl_gnh_jhb">
      <title>PDF (XSL-FO) - Generate Numbers Before a Topic's Title</title>
      <p>A DITA-OT PDF2 <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-ot-numbering" format="html"
        scope="external">customization plugin</xref> that can be installed to generate numbers
        before each topic's title.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_vky_jph_jhb">
      <title>Presents Chapters With Landscape Orientation in PDF (XSL-FO) output</title>
      <p>A PDF <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-classic-pdf-landscape-sample"
          format="html" scope="external">customization folder</xref> that can be used to define
        landscape orientation for a certain chapter. </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
