<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="failed-dita-chm-transformation">
  <title><b>DITA to CHM</b> Transformation Fails</title>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> uses the DITA Open Toolkit and the HTML Help compiler (part of the
      Microsoft HTML Help Workshop) to transform DITA content into <i>Compiled HTML Help</i>
      (or <i>CHM</i> in short).</p>
    <p product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse">It is a good practice to validate the
        <xref keyref="glossentry_ditamap"><term>DITA map</term></xref> before executing the
      transformation scenario. To do so, run <xref href="dita-map-validate.dita#dita-map-validate"
        >the <uicontrol>Validate and Check for Completeness</uicontrol> action</xref>. Depending on
      the selected options, this action reports errors, such as topics referenced in other topics
      (but not in the <term>DITA map</term>), broken links, and missing external resources.</p>
    <p>However, the execution of the transformation scenario may still fail. Reported errors include
      the following:</p>
    <section id="problem_cannot_open_file">
      <title>Problem: Cannot Open File</title>
      <p><codeph>[exec] HHC5010: Error: Cannot open "fileName.chm". Compilation
        stopped.</codeph></p>
    </section>
    <section id="solution_cannot_open_file">
      <title>Solution: Cannot Open File</title>
      <p>This error occurs when the CHM output file is opened and the transformation scenario cannot
        rewrite its content. To solve this issue, close the CHM help file and run the transformation
        scenario again.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="problem_compilation_failed">
      <title>Problem: Compilation Failed</title>
      <p><codeph>[exec] HHC5003: Error: Compilation failed while compiling fileName</codeph></p>
    </section>
    <section id="solution_compilation_failed">
      <title>Solution: Compilation Failed</title>
      <p>Possible causes of this error are:<ul>
          <li>The processed file does not exist. Fix the file reference before executing the
            transformation scenario again.</li>
          <li>The processed file has a name that contains space characters. To solve the issue,
            remove any spacing from the file name and run the transformation scenario again.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse">
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="chm-output-format.dita#chm-output-format"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
