<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="file-contents-panel">
  <title>File Contents Panel</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>Comparing and Merging Documents<indexterm>files comparison<indexterm>file contents
              panel</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>The files are opened in two side-by-side editors. The text view is used, offering a better
      view of the differences.</p>
    <p>The two editors are kept in sync, so if you scroll the text in one of them, the other one
      also scrolls to show the difference side-by-side. The differences are indicated using
      highlights connected through colored areas. To navigate between differences, do one of the
        following:<ul id="ul_lrm_q3f_lf">
        <li>press the <uicontrol>Go to modification</uicontrol> buttons;</li>
        <li>select a change by clicking it in the overview ruler located in the right-most part of
          the window. The overview ruler contains a success indicator in its upper part. It turns
          green in case there are no differences or red if some differences are found.</li>
        <li>click a colored area between the text editors.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>You can edit either the source or the target file. The differences are refreshed when you
      save the modified document.</p>
    <p>Both editors provide a contextual menu that contains <term>edit</term>, <term>merge</term>
      and <term>navigation</term> actions.</p>
    <p>The <uicontrol>Find/Replace</uicontrol> dialog is displayed by pressing
        <uicontrol>Ctrl+F</uicontrol> (<uicontrol>Cmd+F</uicontrol> on Mac).
        <uicontrol>Find/Replace</uicontrol> options are also available: <ul id="ul_zy2_y3f_lf">
        <li><uicontrol>F3</uicontrol> used for performing another search using the last search
          configuration;</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Shift+F3</uicontrol> for performing another search in backward direction
          using the last search configuration.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p product="editor author svnClient diff developer">If the compared blocks of text are too large
      and you want to see the differences at a finer level, you can use the comparison at
        <uicontrol>Word</uicontrol> or <uicontrol>Character</uicontrol> level.</p>
  </body>
</topic>