<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="file-comparison-command-line">
  <title>Starting File Comparison Tool from a Command Line</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Compare Files tool<indexterm>Command line arguments</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>The file comparison tool can be started by using command-line arguments. In the installation
      folder there is an executable shell (<filepath>diffFiles.bat</filepath> on Windows,
        <filepath>diffFiles.sh</filepath> on OS X and Linux). To specify the files to compare, you
      can pass command-line arguments using the following construct:
        <codeph><?oxy_comment_start author="Octavian" timestamp="20190214T115408+0000" comment="We have also a merge file that can be passed in the command line.
In case we have a merged file the content from the left editor will be saved in the merge file. 
&quot;When the Oxygen XML Diff is used from SourceTree as a merge tool, it will automatically add your local changes in the left editor. The left editor content it will be saved as the merged result.
Therefore, your local changes are already added in the merge file and are highlighted with gray. The remote changes (highlighted with blue) can be copied from the right editor in the left editor, in case you want them in the merged result. If you want to discard the remote changes you just need to save the left editor content after the Oxygen XML Diff is presented and then close the application.&quot;"?>diffFiles.bat/diffFiles.sh
        [path to left file] [path to right file] [path to 3-way base
      file]</codeph>.<?oxy_comment_end?></p>
    <p>If three files are specified, the tool will start in the <xref
        href="file-comparison.dita#file-comparison/threeway_comparisons">3-way comparison
        mode</xref>. If only two files are specified, the tool will start in the <xref
        href="file-comparison.dita#file-comparison/twoway_comparisons">2-way comparison mode</xref>.
      The first specified file will be added to the left panel in the comparison tool, the second
      file to the right panel, and the optional third file will be the base (ancestor) file used for
      a 3-way comparison. If you pass only one argument, you are prompted to manually choose another
      file.</p>
    <p>If you want to launch the file comparison tool from an external application with specified
      files and you want the file browsing buttons at the top of both panels to be hidden, you
      should use the <codeph>-ext</codeph> argument as the first command. There are some additional
      arguments that are allowed and to see all the details for the command-line construct, type
        <userinput>diffFiles.bat --help</userinput> in the command line.</p>
    <p><u><b>Example:</b></u></p>
    <p>To do a 3-way comparison, the command line might look like this:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Windows</dt>
          <dd>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-ini">diffFiles.bat "c:\docs\file 1" "c:\docs\file 2" c:\docs\basefile</codeblock>
            <note type="tip">If there are spaces in the path names, surround the paths with
              quotes.</note>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Linux</dt>
          <dd>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-ini">diffFiles.sh home/file1 home/file2 home/basefile</codeblock>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Mac OS X</dt>
          <dd>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-ini">diffFiles.sh documents/file1 documents/file2 documents/basefile</codeblock>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </body>
</topic>
