<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="finishing_tasks">
    <title>Finishing Tasks</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Reviewer Guide<indexterm>Finishing tasks</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Finishing tasks</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
    <body>
    <p>It is highly recommended that you use some sort of mechanism to indicate that the task review
      process is finished in your workflow and all files attached to the task should be reviewed
      before finalizing the task. Otherwise, the <uicontrol>Content Author</uicontrol> may end up
      merging changes more than once and this could result in some complicated conflicts.</p>
    <p>You might have your own preferred method of letting the <b>Content Author</b> know that you
      are finished, but <ph keyref="product"/> also includes a few options to help you.</p>
    <p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>ADD MESSAGE button</dt>
          <dd>You can click the <uicontrol>Add Message</uicontrol> button to create your own message
            to let the <b>Content Author</b> know that the review process in finished.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>FINISH button</dt>
          <dd>From the <xref
              href="content_fusion_user_interface.dita#content_fusion_user_interface/task-details"
              >Task Details page</xref> or <xref
              href="making_changes_to_uploaded_files.dita#making_changes_to_uploaded_files">Oxygen
              XML Web Author editor</xref>, you can click the <uicontrol>Finish</uicontrol> button
            to select a predefined message to let the <b>Content Author</b> know that the review
            process in finished.<p>When you click the <uicontrol>Finish</uicontrol> button, the
              predefined messages are as follows:<ul>
                <li><b>Looks good</b> - The most common use for this selection is when you want to
                  let the <b>Content Author</b> know that all the files in the task have been
                  reviewed and they look good without the need of making any changes.</li>
                <li><b>See my proposed changes</b> - The most common use for this selection is when
                  you want to let the <b>Content Author</b> know that you have made some proposed
                  changes in one or more of the files attached to the task and they can use their
                  judgement to integrate the changes.</li>
                <li><b>See my proposed changes and resend for review</b> - The most common use for
                  this selection is when you want to let the <b>Content Author</b> know that you
                  have made some proposed changes in one or more of the files attached to the task
                  and you want them to integrated the changes and then let you review them
                  again.</li>
                <li><b>Someone else should look at this</b> - The most common use for this selection
                  is when you want to let the <b>Content Author</b> know that you think someone else
                  should look at the files. You can enter your suggestion for who that person should
                  be in the <b>Details</b> field or you could <xref
                    href="sharing_uploaded_tasks.dita#sharing_uploaded_tasks">share the task</xref>
                  with that person.</li>
                <li><b>Other</b> - The most common use for this selection is when you want to enter
                  your own message in the <b>Details</b> field.</li>
              </ul></p></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
