<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="floating-toolbar-property">
  <title>Floating Toolbar: -oxy-floating-toolbar Property</title>
  <shortdesc>Used to display a configured floating toolbar in <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol>
    mode.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>CSS extensions<indexterm>Additional CSS
              properties<indexterm>-oxy-floating-toolbar CSS
          property</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_ulc_dgk_54b">The <codeph>-oxy-floating-toolbar</codeph> property is used to configure and display a
      floating toolbar in <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode. It accepts a space-separated list of
      the following functions:<ul id="ul_fks_ksj_kmb">
        <li id="li_vlc_dgk_54b"><codeph>oxy_button</codeph></li>
        <li><codeph>oxy_buttonGroup</codeph></li>
        <li id="li_cbl_kns_25b"><codeph>oxy_textfield</codeph></li>
        <li id="li_ylc_dgk_54b"><codeph>oxy_combobox</codeph></li>
        <li id="li_zlc_dgk_54b"><codeph>oxy_label</codeph></li>
      </ul></p>
    <note id="note_amc_dgk_54b">The <codeph>"|"</codeph> text value can be used to add a separator between elements of the
      toolbar.  </note>
    <p id="p_bmc_dgk_54b">It must be used in conjunction with the <codeph>-oxy-selected</codeph> and
        <codeph>-oxy-selection-inside</codeph> pseudo-classes. The <codeph>-oxy-selected</codeph>
      pseudo-class is automatically set on an element that is fully selected and the
        <codeph>-oxy-selection-inside</codeph> pseudo-class is automatically set on an element that
      has a selection inside.</p>
    <p id="p_cmc_dgk_54b"><b><u>Example 1:</u></b><pre>p:-oxy-selection-inside {
    -oxy-floating-toolbar: 
        oxy_button(actionID, 'bold')
        oxy_button(actionID, 'italic')
        oxy_button(actionID, 'underline')
}</pre></p>
    <p id="p_dmc_dgk_54b">This results in a floating toolbar that contains bold, italic, and underline actions
      presented in <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode every time text inside a paragraph element is
      selected.</p>
    <p id="p_emc_dgk_54b"><b><u>Example 2:</u></b><pre>p:-oxy-selected {
    -oxy-floating-toolbar: 
        oxy_label(text, "Platform: ")
        oxy_combobox(
            edit, '@platform', 
            editable, false, 
            values, 'windows, mac, linux', 
            labels, 'Windows, MacOS, Linux'
            )
}</pre></p>
    <p id="p_fmc_dgk_54b">This results in a floating toolbar that contains a <term>Platform:</term>
      label and a drop-down menu used to change the value of the <xmlatt>platform</xmlatt> profiling
      attribute. This is presented in <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode every time a paragraph
      element is fully selected.</p>
    <p id="p_gmc_dgk_54b"><b><u>Example 3:</u></b><pre>[conref]:-oxy-selected, [conkeyref]:-oxy-selected {
    -oxy-floating-toolbar: 
        oxy_button(actionID, 'add_edit_content_reference')
        oxy_button(actionID, 'remove_content_reference')
        "|"
        oxy_button(actionID, 'conref.replace')
}</pre></p>
    <p id="p_hmc_dgk_54b">This results in a floating toolbar that contains <uicontrol>Edit Content
        Reference</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Remove Content Reference</uicontrol>, and
        <uicontrol>Replace Reference with Content</uicontrol> actions presented in
        <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode every time an element with a <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> or
        <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> attribute is fully selected.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
