<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="formatting-and-indenting-xml-documents">
  <title>Formatting and Indenting Documents (Pretty Print)</title><prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>Editing XML Documents<indexterm>formatting and indenting documents (pretty print)</indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>In structured markup languages, the whitespace between elements that is created using the
        <i>Space bar</i>, <i>Tab</i> or multiple line breaks is not recognized by the parsing tools.
      Often this means that when structured markup documents are opened, they are arranged as one
      long, unbroken line, that seems to be a single paragraph.</p>
    <p>While this is a perfectly acceptable practice, it makes editing difficult and increases the
      likelihood of errors being introduced. It also makes the identification of exact error
      positions difficult. Formatting and Indenting, also called <uicontrol>Pretty
      Print</uicontrol>, enables such documents to be neatly arranged, in a manner that is
      consistent and promotes easier reading on screen and in print output.</p>
    <p>Pretty print is in no way associated with the layout or formatting that will be used in the
      transformed document. This layout and formatting is supplied by the XSL stylesheet specified
      at the time of transformation.</p>
    <p>
      <ph product="editor author developer">To change the formatting of just one XML element see the action
          <xref href="source-actions.dita">
          <uicontrol>Pretty print element</uicontrol>
        </xref>.</ph> To change the indenting of the current selected text see the <xref href="source-actions.dita">
        <uicontrol>Indent selection</uicontrol></xref> action.</p>
    <p>For user preferences related to formatting and indenting like <uicontrol>Detect indent on
        open</uicontrol> and <uicontrol>Indent on paste</uicontrol> see <xref href="preferences-editor-format.dita">the corresponding Preferences panel.</xref>
    </p>
    <p>XML elements can be excepted from the reformatting performed by the pretty-print operation by
      including them in the <i>Preserve space elements (XPath)</i> list. That means that when the
        <i>Format and Indent</i> (pretty-print) action encounters in the document an element with
      the name contained in this list, the whitespace is preserved inside that element. This is
      useful when most of the elements must be reformatted with the exception of a few ones which
      are listed here.</p>
    <p>For the situation when whitespace should be preserved in most elements with the exception of
      a few elements, the names of these elements must be added to the <i>Strip space elements
        (XPath)</i> list.</p>
    <p>In addition to simple element names, both the <i>Preserve space elements (XPath)</i> list and
      the <i>Strip space elements (XPath)</i> one accept a restricted set of XPath expressions to
      cover a pattern of XML elements with only one expression. The allowed types of expressions
      are:</p>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>//xs:documentation</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>the XPath descendant axis can be used only at the beginning of the expression; the
            namespace prefix can be attached to any namespace, no namespace binding check is
            performed when applying the pretty-print operation</p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>/chapter/abstract/title</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>note the use of the XPath child axis</p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>//section/title</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>the descendant axis can be followed by the child axis</p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <p>The value of an <i>xml:space</i> attribute present in the XML document on which the
      pretty-print operation is applied always takes precedence over the <i>Preserve space elements
        (XPath)</i> and the <i>Strip space elements (XPath)</i> lists.</p>
  </body>
</topic>