<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_sxf_qyc_jp">
  <title>Formatting and Indenting of XML Documents</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Format and indent</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Pretty print</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Whitespace handling</indexterm>
        <indexterm>XML serialization</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> creates XML documents using several different <xref
        keyref="chapter.edit-modes">edit modes</xref>. In text mode, you as the author decide how
      the XML file is formatted and indented. In the other modes, and when you switch between modes,
        <ph keyref="product"/> must decide how to format and indent the XML. <ph keyref="product"/>
      will also format and indent your XML for you in text mode if you use one of the Format and
      Indent option (<menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Document</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Source</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Format and Indent</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>, <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Document</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Source</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol><?oxy_comment_start author="Mark" timestamp="20140908T130747-0400" comment="Why is this option  called &quot;indent&quot; rather and &quot;Format and Indent&quot;? Is there any difference in the rules applied? "?>Indent
          Selection<?oxy_comment_end?></uicontrol>
      </menucascade>, or <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Document</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Source</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Format and Indent Element</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>). A number of settings affect how <ph keyref="product"/> formats and indents
      XML. Many of these settings have to do with how whitespace is handled. </p>
    <section>
      <title>Significant and insignificant whitespace in XML</title>
      <p>XML documents are text files that describe complex documents. Some of the white space
        (spaces, tabs, line feeds, etc.) in the XML document belongs to the document it describes
        (such as the space between words in a paragraph) and some of it belongs to the XML document
        (such as a line break between two XML elements). Whitespace belonging to the XML file is
        called <term>insignificant whitespace</term>. The meaning of the XML would be the same if
        the insignificant whitespace were removed. Whitespace belonging to the document being
        described is called <term>significant whitespace</term>. </p>
      <p>Knowing when whitespace is significant or insignificant is not always easy. For instance, a
        paragraph in an XML document might be laid out like this:</p>
    </section>
    <codeblock>&lt;p>
NO Freeman shall be taken or imprisoned, or be disseised of his Freehold, or Liberties, or
free Customs, or be outlawed, or exiled, or any other wise destroyed; nor will We not pass
upon him, nor condemn him, but by lawful judgment of his Peers, or by the <xref href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Law_of_the_land" format="html" scope="external">Law of the land</xref>. 
We will sell to no man, we will not deny or defer to any man either Justice or Right.
&lt;/p></codeblock>
    <p>By default, XML considers a single whitespace between words to be significant, and all other
      whitespace to be insignificant. Thus the paragraph above could be written all on one line with
      no spaces between the start tag and the first word or between the last word and the end tag
      and the XML parser would see it as exactly the same paragraph. Removing the insignificant
      space in markup like this is called <term>normalizing space</term>. </p>
    <p>But in some cases, all the spaces inside and element should be treated as significant. For
      example, in a code sample:</p>
    <codeblock>&lt;codeblock>
class HelloWorld
{
   public static void main(String args[])
   {
      System.out.println("Hello World");
   }
}
&lt;/codeblock></codeblock>
    <p>Here every whitespace character between the <codeph>codeblock</codeph> tags should be treated
      as significant. </p>
    <section>
      <title>How <ph keyref="product"/> determines when whitespace is significant</title>
      <p>When <ph keyref="product"/> formats and indents an XML document, it introduces or removes
        insignificant whitespace to produce a layout with reasonable line lengths and elements
        indented to show their place in the hierarchy of the document. To correctly format and
        indent the XML source, <ph keyref="product"/> needs to know when to treat whitespace as
        significant and when to treat it as insignificant. However it is not always possible to tell
        this from the XML source file alone. <ph keyref="product"/> uses the following rules to
        determine when whitespace is significant or insignificant. </p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>xml:space</dt>
          <dd>If the XML element contains the xml:space attribute with the value of preserve (for
            example: <codeph>&lt;p xml:space="presereve"</codeph>) all whitespace in that element is
            treated as significant. No additional spaces are introduced.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>CSS whitespace</dt>
          <dd>If the CSS stylesheet controlling the Author mode editor applies the
              <codeph>whitespace: pre</codeph> setting to an element,  all whitespace in that
            element is treated as significant. No additional spaces are introduced.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Schema aware formatting</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>If a schema is available for the XML document, <ph keyref="product"/> can use
              information from the schema to help determine what is significant or insignificant
              whitespace.
              <?oxy_comment_start author="Mark" timestamp="20140908T134827-0400" comment="Why are there two different setting for this. One is specific to the Author mode but the other is general, and so would presumably apply to Author mode as well. "?>To
              enable schema aware format and indent, <ph
                conkeyref="reusable.menus/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
                <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>Format</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>XML</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>Schema aware format and indent</uicontrol>
              </menucascade> and <menucascade>
                <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>Edit modes</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>Schema aware</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>Schema aware normalization, format and indent</uicontrol>
              </menucascade>.<?oxy_comment_end?></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Preserve space elements list</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>If an element is listed in the <uicontrol>Preserve space</uicontrol> list in the
                <xref keyref="options.editor.format.xml">XML formatting preferences</xref>, all
              whitespace in that element is treated as significant. No additional spaces are
              introduced.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Default space elements list</dt>
          <dd>
            <?oxy_comment_start author="Mark" timestamp="20140908T125326-0400" comment="It is not clear if Oxygen will format an indent normally after normalizing the element of if the element is simply normalized and left alone."?>
            <p>If an element is listed in the <uicontrol>Default space</uicontrol> list in the <xref
                keyref="options.editor.format.xml">XML formatting preferences</xref>, whitespace in
              that element is normalized.<?oxy_comment_end?></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Mixed content elements list</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>If an element is listed in the <uicontrol>Mixed content</uicontrol> list in the <xref
                keyref="options.editor.format.xml">XML formatting preferences</xref>, <ph
                keyref="product"/> will avoid introducing space anywhere that whitespace does not
              already exist. Normally, spaces between XML elements are insignificant, but if they
              occur in the middle of a text string the lack of space between element or between
              elements and text may be significant (that is, there should not be any space between
              them in the output). For example:</p>
            <codeblock>&lt;p>The file is located in &lt;i>HOME&lt;/i>/&lt;i>USER&lt;/i>/hello.&lt;/p></codeblock>
            <p>In this example, whitespace should not be introduced around the i tags as it would
              introduce extra significant whitespace into the document. </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Text node content</dt>
          <dd>
            <ul>
                  <li>If the text node contains other non-white-space characters then the
                white-spaces are normalized.</li>
                  <li>If the text node contains only white-spaces:<ul id="ul_adt_lh2_jp">
                      <li>If the node has a parent element with the CSS <codeph>display</codeph>
                    property set to <codeph>inline</codeph> then the white-spaces are
                    normalized.</li>
                      <li>If the left or right sibling is an element with the CSS
                      <codeph>display</codeph> property set to <codeph>inline</codeph> then the
                    white-spaces are normalized.</li>
                      <li>
                        <p>If one of its ancestors is an element with the CSS
                        <codeph>display</codeph> property set to <codeph>table</codeph> then the
                      white-spaces are striped.</p>
                      </li>
                      <li>
                        <p>Otherwise the white-spaces
                      <?oxy_comment_start author="Mark" timestamp="20140908T142016-0400" comment="What does ignored mean? Included or excluded?"?>are
                      ignored<?oxy_comment_end?>.</p>
                      </li>
                    </ul></li>
            </ul>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>How <ph keyref="product"/> formats and indents XML</title>
      <p>When formatting and indenting a document, additional line separators and white-spaces are
        added as follows:<ul id="ul_vpb_d32_jp">
          <li>Before a text node that starts with a white-space;</li>
          <li>After a text node that ends with a white-space;</li>
          <li>Before and after CSS <codeph>block</codeph> nodes;</li>
          <li>If the current node has an ancestor that is a CSS <codeph>table</codeph> element.</li>
        </ul>You can control how <ph keyref="product"/> formats and indents XML documents. This can
        be particularly important if you store your XML document in a version control system, as it
        allows you to limit the number of trivial changes in spacing between versions of an XML
        document. The following settings pages control how XML documents are formatted:</p>
      <ul id="ul_qrp_yzd_jp">
        <li><xref keyref="options.editor.format"/></li>
        <li><xref keyref="options.editor.format.xml"/></li>
        <li><xref keyref="options.editor.format.xml.whitespace"/></li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>When <ph keyref="product"/> formats and indents XML</title>
      <p><ph keyref="product"/> formats and indents a document or part of it on the following
        occasions:</p>
      <ul id="ul_qgy_jyd_jp">
        <li>In text mode when you select one of the format and indent options (<menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Document</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Source</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Format and Indent</uicontrol>
          </menucascade>, <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Document</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Source</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Indent Selection</uicontrol>
          </menucascade>, or <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Document</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Source</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Format and Indent Element</uicontrol>
          </menucascade>).</li>
        <li/>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
