<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="framework-customization-script-usecases">
  <title>Framework Extension Script File</title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_qxz_cgk_54b">The framework extension file is used to describe a new framework configuration. Optionally,
      you can extend an existing built-in framework configuration (such as DITA or DocBook) and then
      make additions and changes to it.</p>
    <p id="p_rxz_cgk_54b">The easiest way to create such a file is to use the <xref href="new-dialog-sa.dita"
        product="author editor"><b>New</b> document wizard</xref><xref
        href="new-dialog-eclipse.dita" product="authorEclipse editorEclipse"><b>New</b> document
        wizard</xref> and choose the <b>Extend Framework Script</b> or <b>Create Framework
        Script</b> template.</p>
    <p id="p_sxz_cgk_54b">The following examples assume that the newly created framework extends a built-in one. </p>
    <section id="section_kmt_jry_jnb">
      <title>Basic Information</title>
      <p id="p_txz_cgk_54b">Once you have created a new script file, you need to:</p>
      <ul id="ul_ovk_r3d_knb">
        <li id="li_uxz_cgk_54b">Specify the name of the framework using the <xmlelement>name</xmlelement> element.
          Optionally, you can also add a description using the <xmlelement>description</xmlelement>
          element.</li>
        <li id="li_vxz_cgk_54b">If you want to extend an existing framework (such as DITA or DocBook), specify the name
          of the extended framework using the <xmlatt>base</xmlatt> attribute on the
            <xmlelement>script</xmlelement> element.</li>
        <li id="li_wxz_cgk_54b">The <xmlelement>priority</xmlelement> element might be needed to
          instruct <ph keyref="product"/> to use this new framework instead of the one being
          extended or another framework that matches the same document.</li>
      </ul>
      <p id="p_xxz_cgk_54b"><u><b>Example: Extending the Built-in DITA
        Framework</b></u><codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_yxz_cgk_54b">&lt;script xmlns="http://www.oxygenxml.com/ns/framework/extend"
  xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
  xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.oxygenxml.com/ns/framework/extend 
  http://www.oxygenxml.com/ns/framework/extend/frameworkExtensionScript.xsd"
  base="DITA">
  &lt;name>My custom DITA framework&lt;/name>
  &lt;description>A custom framework based on the built-in DITA framework&lt;/description>
  &lt;priority>High&lt;/priority>
&lt;/script></codeblock></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_classpath">
      <title>Changing the Association Rules</title>
      <p id="p_zxz_cgk_54b">
        <ph keyref="product"/> identifies the type of a document when the document matches at least
        one of the <i>association rules</i>.</p>
      <p id="p_ayz_cgk_54b"><b><u>Example: Instructing the Built-in Associations to Inherit None to Add Your
          Own</u></b><codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_byz_cgk_54b">&lt;associationRules inherit="none">
  &lt;addRule rootElementLocalName="concept"/>
  &lt;addRule fileName="test.xml"/>
&lt;/associationRules></codeblock></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_bm5_gls_mqb">
      <title>Setting the Initial Editing Mode</title>
      <p>You can set the default editing mode that is loaded when a document is opened for the first
        time. For example, if the files are usually edited in the <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol>
        mode, you can set it as the initial page. For more details on the possible values, see <xref
          href="the-document-type-dialog.dita#the-document-type-dialog/initial-edit-mode">Document
          Type Configuration Dialog Box - Initial Edit Mode</xref>.</p>
      <p id="p_mjj_d3t_mqb"><b><u>Example: Setting the Initial Editing Mode to
        Author</u></b><codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_ffh_4ls_mqb">&lt;initialPage>Author&lt;/initialPage></codeblock></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_snf_rry_jnb">
      <title>Changing the Classpath</title>
      <p id="p_cyz_cgk_54b">The <uicontrol>Classpath</uicontrol> tab displays a list of folders and <xref
          keyref="glossentry_jar"><term>JAR</term></xref> libraries that hold implementations for
        API extensions, implementations for custom <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode operations,
        various resources (such as stylesheets), and <xref keyref="glossentry_framework"
            ><term>framework</term></xref> translation files. <ph keyref="product"/> loads the
        resources looking in the folders in the order they appear in the list.</p>
      <p id="p_dyz_cgk_54b"><b><u>Example: Customizing and Extending the Classpath Inherited From
            the Base
          Framework</u></b><codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_eyz_cgk_54b">  &lt;classpath inherit="all">
    &lt;!-- Contribute this resource before the ones inherited from the base framework
    because Oxygen loads the resources looking in the folders in the order they 
    appear in the list.
    -->
    &lt;addEntry path="${framework}/resources_2x" position="before"/>
    
    &lt;removeEntry path="${baseFramework}/refactoring/"/>
  &lt;/classpath></codeblock><note id="note_x2v_fxc_v4b">When removing entries with
          framework editor variables, take into consideration how they were added in the base
          framework. <ul id="ul_y2v_fxc_v4b">
            <li>An entry present in the base framework with the path
                <filepath>${framework}/file</filepath> can be removed using an identical path or by
              using the <term>${baseFramework}</term> variable:
                <filepath>${baseFramework}/file</filepath>.</li>
            <li>An entry present in the base framework with the path
                <filepath>${frameworkDir}/file</filepath> can be removed using an identical path or
              by using the <term>${baseFrameworkDir}</term> variable:
                <filepath>${baseFrameworkDir}/file</filepath>.</li>
          </ul></note></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_gz3_n1n_tsb">
      <title><b>Sharing a Plugin Class Loader</b></title>
      <p>If your <term>framework</term> uses the same JAVA extensions/classes as a <xref
          keyref="glossentry_plugin"><term>plugin</term></xref>, it is recommended that they share
        the same classloader. This way, the common classes are loaded by only one <i>Class
          Loader</i> and they will both use the same static objects and have the ability to cast
        objects between one
        another.<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_vy5_qbn_tsb">&lt;classpath parentClassLoaderID="com.oxygenxml.git.plugin"/></codeblock></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_cv1_ztm_knb">
      <title>Changing XML Catalogs</title>
      <p id="p_fyz_cgk_54b">For cases where you need to reference the location of a schema file from a remote web
        location and an internet connection may not be available, an <xref
          keyref="glossentry_xml-catalog"><term>XML Catalog</term></xref> may be used to map the web
        location to a local file system entry.</p>
      <p id="p_gyz_cgk_54b"><b><u>Example: Customizing and Extending the XML Catalogs Inherited From
            the Base
        Framework</u></b><codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_hyz_cgk_54b">&lt;xmlCatalogs inherit="all">
  &lt;!-- Contribute this resource before the ones inherited from the base framework
    because Oxygen loads the resources looking in the folders in the order they 
    appear in the list.
    -->
  &lt;addEntry path="${framework}/catalog.xml" position="before"/>
  
  &lt;removeEntry path="${baseFramework}/oldCatalog.xml"/>
&lt;/xmlCatalogs></codeblock></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_fdb_2xm_knb">
      <title>Changing the Document Templates</title>
      <p id="p_iyz_cgk_54b">You can create your own custom document templates or remove templates inherited from the
        base framework.</p>
      <p id="p_jyz_cgk_54b"><b><u>Example: Customizing and Extending the XML Catalogs Inherited From
            the Base
        Framework</u></b><codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_kyz_cgk_54b">&lt;documentTemplates inherit="all">
  &lt;!-- Contribute this resource before the ones inherited from the base framework
    to make them appear first in the list.
    -->
  &lt;addEntry path="${framework}/newTemplates" position="before"/>
  
  &lt;removeEntry path="${baseFramework}/oldTemplates"/>
&lt;/documentTemplates></codeblock></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_u4j_5xm_knb">
      <title>Adding New Transformation Scenarios and Removing Existing Ones</title>
      <p id="p_lyz_cgk_54b">You can create new transformation scenarios and export them in one of
        the following locations:<ul id="ul_fw5_dzm_knb">
          <li id="li_myz_cgk_54b">The <xref href="scenarios-view.dita"/>.</li>
          <li id="li_nyz_cgk_54b">The <xref href="configure-transformation-dialog.dita"/>.</li>
          <li id="li_oyz_cgk_54b">The <xref href="document-type-transformation-tab.dita"/>.</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p id="p_pyz_cgk_54b"><b><u>Example: Importing New Transformation Scenarios</u></b></p>
      <p conkeyref="reusables-author-mode-customization/p_import_scenarios" id="p_a1p_3rb_fpb"/>
      <p>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_ryz_cgk_54b">&lt;transformationScenarios>
  &lt;addScenarios href="scenarioExport.scenarios"/>
  &lt;removeScenario name="DITA HTML5"/>
  &lt;defaultScenarios>
    &lt;name>DITA&lt;/name>
    &lt;name>XML&lt;/name>
  &lt;/defaultScenarios>
&lt;/transformationScenarios></codeblock>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_bkx_zym_knb">
      <title>Adding New Validation Scenarios and Removing Existing Ones</title>
      <p id="p_syz_cgk_54b">You can create new validation scenarios and export them in one of the
        following locations:<ul id="ul_ckx_zym_knb">
          <li id="li_tyz_cgk_54b">The <xref href="create-validation-scenario.dita">Configure
              Validation Scenario Dialog Box</xref>.</li>
          <li id="li_uyz_cgk_54b">The <xref href="document-type-validation-tab.dita"/>.</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p id="p_vyz_cgk_54b"><b><u>Example: Importing New Validation Scenarios</u></b></p>
      <p conkeyref="reusables-author-mode-customization/p_import_scenarios" id="p_krg_jrb_fpb"/>
      <p id="p_wyz_cgk_54b">
        <codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_xyz_cgk_54b">&lt;validationScenarios>
  &lt;addScenarios href="validationScenarioExport.scenarios"/>
  &lt;removeScenario name="DITA"/>
  &lt;defaultScenarios>
    &lt;name>DITA Validation&lt;/name>
    &lt;name>XML Validation&lt;/name>
  &lt;/defaultScenarios>
&lt;/validationScenarios></codeblock>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_kyz_sry_jnb">
      <title>Customizing the Author Mode Through New CSS Files</title>
      <p id="p_yyz_cgk_54b">The <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode layout is driven by CSS rules. To customize it, you
        need to create new CSS files and add them in the new framework.</p>
      <p id="p_zyz_cgk_54b"><b><u>Example: Using Larger Fonts in
        Titles</u></b><codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_azz_cgk_54b">&lt;author>
    &lt;css>
      &lt;removeCss path="${framework}/base.css"/>
      &lt;!-- 
        Adding CSS after the ones in the base gives the opportunity to 
        override rules from previous CSSs. 
      -->
      &lt;addCss path="${framework}/titles.css" position="after"/>
    &lt;/css>
  &lt;/author></codeblock></p>
      <p id="p_bzz_cgk_54b">The <filepath>${framework}/titles.css</filepath> file contains a rule like
        this:<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_czz_cgk_54b">*[class~='topic/title'] {
  font-size:larger;
}</codeblock></p>
      <p id="p_dzz_cgk_54b"><b><u>Example: Creating an Alternate CSS That Activates When the User Selects it in the
            Styles Menu</u></b><codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_ezz_cgk_54b">  &lt;author>
    &lt;css>
      &lt;addCss path="${framework}/pink.css" title="Pink titles" alternate="true"/>
    &lt;/css>
  &lt;/author></codeblock></p>
      <p id="p_fzz_cgk_54b">The <filepath>${framework}/pink.css</filepath> file contains a rule like
        this:<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_gzz_cgk_54b">*[class~='topic/title'] {
  color:#FF1493;
}</codeblock></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_qzt_5ry_jnb">
      <title>Defining Author Actions for the New Framework</title>
      <p id="p_hzz_cgk_54b">Create <xref href="dg-create-custom-actions.dita#dg-create-custom-actions/section_2"
          >external author actions</xref>, save them in a <xref
          href="dg-create-custom-actions.dita#dg-create-custom-actions/section_ht2_3jg_jlb">specific
          subdirectory of your particular framework directory</xref>, and they will be loaded
        automatically.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_f3p_2ld_4nb">
      <title>Removing Author Actions from the Base Framework</title>
      <p id="p_izz_cgk_54b">Suppose that the base framework configuration defines some <xref
          href="dg-create-custom-actions.dita">author actions</xref> that are added in <xref
          href="the-menu-sub-tab.dita">the main menu</xref>, <xref
          href="the-contextual-menu-sub-tab.dita">contextual menu</xref>, <xref
          href="the-toolbar-tab.dita">toolbar</xref>, or <xref
          href="the-content-completion-tab.dita">content completion window</xref>. If you do not
        want to inherit one of these actions in the new framework and you also want to remove it
        from all the GUI elements, you can use the <xmlelement>removeAction</xmlelement>
          element:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_jzz_cgk_54b">&lt;author>
  &lt;authorActions>
    &lt;removeAction id="action.to.remove"/>
  &lt;/authorActions>
&lt;/author></codeblock><note id="note_kzz_cgk_54b">If the new framework has an <xref
            href="dg-create-custom-actions.dita#dg-create-custom-actions/section_2">external author
            action</xref> with the same ID as one of the actions specified in a
            <xmlelement>removeAction</xmlelement> element, the action will not be removed from the
          GUI elements (menus, toolbars, content completion window).</note></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_slg_m2h_g5b">
      <title>Replacing Author Actions from the Base Framework</title>
      <p>Suppose that the base framework configuration defines some <xref
          href="dg-create-custom-actions.dita">author actions</xref> that are added in <xref
          href="the-menu-sub-tab.dita">the main menu</xref>, <xref
          href="the-contextual-menu-sub-tab.dita">contextual menu</xref>, <xref
          href="the-toolbar-tab.dita">toolbar</xref>, or <xref
          href="the-content-completion-tab.dita">content completion window</xref>. If you want to
        keep one of these actions in all the GUI elements, but to perform differently in the new
        framework, just create an<xref
          href="dg-create-custom-actions.dita#dg-create-custom-actions/section_2">external author
          action</xref> with the same ID as the action to replace and save it in the <xref
          href="dg-create-custom-actions.dita#dg-create-custom-actions/section_ht2_3jg_jlb">specific
          subdirectory of your new framework directory</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_b3l_yb2_knb">
      <title>Author Toolbar Configuration</title>
      <p id="p_lzz_cgk_54b">The <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode-specific toolbars for the new framework can be
        customized by:</p>
      <ul id="ul_i5v_yry_jnb">
        <li id="li_mzz_cgk_54b">Adding or removing actions from toolbars.</li>
        <li id="li_nzz_cgk_54b">Changing toolbar groups by adding or removing actions.</li>
        <li id="li_ozz_cgk_54b">Creating new toolbars and action groups.</li>
      </ul>
      <p id="p_pzz_cgk_54b"><b><u>Example: Customizing the
          Toolbar</u></b><codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_qzz_cgk_54b">  &lt;author>
    &lt;toolbars>
      &lt;toolbar>

        &lt;!-- Remove an action inherited from the base framework. -->
        &lt;removeAction id="bold"/>
        
        &lt;!-- Insert an action into an existing group -->
        &lt;group name="${i18n(link)}">
          &lt;addAction id="insert.note"/>
        &lt;/group>
        
        &lt;!-- Add actions, separators and new groups-->
        &lt;separator/>
        &lt;addAction id="insert.note"/>
        
        &lt;group name="New group">
          &lt;addAction id="insert.note"/>
          &lt;addAction id="insert.table"/>
        &lt;/group>
      &lt;/toolbar>
    &lt;/toolbars>
  &lt;/author></codeblock><note id="note_rzz_cgk_54b">If you create a toolbar or group
          configuration and a toolbar/group with the same name already exists in the base framework,
          you will change the one inherited instead of creating a new one. You can inspect the names
          of the existing toolbars/groups inherited from the base framework in the <xref
            href="the-toolbar-tab.dita"/>.</note></p>
      <p id="p_szz_cgk_54b"><b><u>Example: Creating a New Toolbar</u></b></p>
      <p id="p_tzz_cgk_54b">A new toolbar is created if the <xmlatt>name</xmlatt> attribute does not match a toolbar
        inherited from the base.<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_uzz_cgk_54b">&lt;author>
    &lt;toolbars>
      &lt;toolbar name="Extra Toolbar">
        &lt;!-- Add actions, separators and new groups-->
        &lt;separator/>
        &lt;addAction id="insert.note"/>
        
        &lt;group name="New group">
          &lt;addAction id="insert.note"/>
          &lt;addAction id="insert.table"/>
        &lt;/group>
      &lt;/toolbar>
    &lt;/toolbars>
  &lt;/author></codeblock></p>
      <p id="p_vzz_cgk_54b"><b><u>Example: Adding an Action in the Toolbar at a Specific Location</u></b></p>
      <p id="p_wzz_cgk_54b">You can insert items (actions or groups) relative to other items already present in the
        toolbar because they were inherited from the base framework configuration. The
          <xmlatt>anchor</xmlatt> attribute specifies either the ID of an action or the name of a
        group already present in the toolbar and the <xmlatt>position</xmlatt> attribute specifies
        whether the new item should be added before or after it.<note id="note_xzz_cgk_54b">If the <xmlatt>anchor</xmlatt>
          attribute is missing, the entries will be added either first or last, according to
            <xmlatt>position</xmlatt>
        value.</note><codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_yzz_cgk_54b">      &lt;toolbar>
        &lt;addAction id="insert.note" anchor="bold" position="before"/>
        
        &lt;group name="Table menu" anchor="${i18n(link)}" position="after">
          &lt;addAction id="insert.table"/>
        &lt;/group>
      &lt;/toolbar></codeblock></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_egc_zr2_knb">
      <title>Author Menu and Contextual Menu Configuration</title>
      <p id="p_zzz_cgk_54b">The <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode-specific menus for the new framework can be
        customized by:</p>
      <ul id="ul_yky_pz2_knb">
        <li id="li_a11_dgk_54b">Adding or removing actions and submenus.</li>
        <li id="li_b11_dgk_54b">Changing existing submenus by adding or removing actions.</li>
      </ul>
      <p id="p_c11_dgk_54b"><b><u>Example: Customizing the Contextual
          Menu</u></b><codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_d11_dgk_54b">    &lt;contextualMenu>
      &lt;!-- Add new actions and submenu -->
      &lt;separator/>
      &lt;addAction id="insert.table"/>
      &lt;submenu name="Other actions">
        &lt;addAction id="insert.note"/>
      &lt;/submenu>
      
      &lt;!-- Contribute to an existing submenu -->
      &lt;submenu name="${i18n(section)}">
        &lt;addAction id="paragraph"/>
      &lt;/submenu>
      
      &lt;!-- Remove a submenu inherited from the base framework. -->
      &lt;removeSubmenu name="${i18n(link)}"/>
    &lt;/contextualMenu></codeblock><note id="note_e11_dgk_54b">The framework main menu is configured similarly,
          inside a <xmlelement>menu</xmlelement> container.</note><note type="tip" id="note_f11_dgk_54b">You can inspect
          the names of the submenus inherited from the base framework in the <xref
            href="the-contextual-menu-sub-tab.dita"/> and <xref href="the-menu-sub-tab.dita"
          />.</note></p>
      <p id="p_g11_dgk_54b"><b><u>Example: Adding an Action in the Contextual Menu at a Specific Location</u></b></p>
      <p id="p_h11_dgk_54b">You can insert new actions and submenus relative to other actions and submenus already
        present in the menu because they were inherited from the base framework configuration. The
          <xmlatt>anchor</xmlatt> attribute specifies the ID of an <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol>
        mode action or a name of a submenu already present in the menu and the
          <xmlatt>position</xmlatt> attribute specifies whether the new action should be added
        before or after it.<note id="note_i11_dgk_54b">If the <xmlatt>anchor</xmlatt> attribute is missing, the entries
          will be added either first or last, according to <xmlatt>position</xmlatt>
        value.</note><codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_j11_dgk_54b">    &lt;contextualMenu>
      &lt;addAction id="insert.note" anchor="edit.image.map" position="before"/>
      
      &lt;submenu name="Table menu" anchor="${i18n(insert)}" position="after">
        &lt;addAction id="insert.table"/>
      &lt;/submenu>
    &lt;/contextualMenu></codeblock></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_cgh_yzm_knb">
      <title>Configuring the Content Completion in Author Mode</title>
      <p id="p_k11_dgk_54b">You can replace content completion entries obtained from the associated schema with <xref
          href="dg-create-custom-actions.dita"><uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode
        actions</xref>.</p>
      <p id="p_l11_dgk_54b">In the <xmlelement>authorActions</xmlelement> container, you can specify the
          <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode actions to be contributed. Optionally, you can mark
        them as a replacement for an existing schema proposal with the
          <xmlatt>replacedElement</xmlatt> attribute.</p>
      <p id="p_m11_dgk_54b">The <xmlelement>schemaProposals</xmlelement> element allows you to
        remove proposals detected from the associated schema through the
          <xmlelement>removeProposal</xmlelement> element. If some proposals were removed in the
        base framework configuration and you want them re-added, you can do so through the
          <xmlelement>addProposal</xmlelement> element.</p>
      <p id="p_n11_dgk_54b"><b><u>Example: Customizing the Content Completion
        Assistant</u></b><codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_o11_dgk_54b">&lt;contentCompletion>
  &lt;authorActions>
    &lt;addAction id="insert.note" replacedElement="note" inCCWindow="true"/> 
  &lt;/authorActions>
  
  &lt;schemaProposals>
    &lt;removeProposal renderName="table"/>
    
    &lt;!-- The base framework removed the "list" element proposal. We want it back... -->
    &lt;addProposal renderName="list"/>
  &lt;/schemaProposals>
&lt;/contentCompletion></codeblock></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_ffm_k1s_knb">
      <title>Using Framework Extension Points</title>
      <p id="p_p11_dgk_54b">The <uicontrol>Extensions</uicontrol> tab specifies implementations of Java interfaces used
        to provide advanced functionality to the document type. Libraries that contain the
        implementations must be present in the <xref
          href="#framework-customization-script-usecases/section_snf_rry_jnb" format="dita"
          >classpath of your framework</xref>. The Javadoc available at <xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/" format="html"
          scope="external"/> contains details about how each API implementation functions.</p>
      <p id="p_q11_dgk_54b"><b><u>Example: Setting a Custom Extensions
        Bundle</u></b><codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_r11_dgk_54b">&lt;extensionPoints>
  &lt;extension 
    name="extensionsBundleClassName" 
    value="ro.sync.ecss.extensions.dita.map.DITAMapExtensionsBundle"/>
&lt;/extensionPoints></codeblock></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_dfy_d5d_qnb">
      <title>Reusing Parts of the Script Using XInclude</title>
      <p id="p_s11_dgk_54b">Elements in the script can be specified in dedicated files that can then be referenced
        using XInclude in the script.</p>
      <p id="p_t11_dgk_54b"><b><u>Example: Using XInclude to Reference Elements in the
        Script</u></b><codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_u11_dgk_54b">&lt;script xmlns="http://www.oxygenxml.com/ns/framework/extend">
    &lt;name>New framework&lt;/name>
    &lt;xi:include href="classpath.xml" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"/>
&lt;/script></codeblock></p>
      <p id="p_v11_dgk_54b">Where the referenced <filepath>classpath.xml</filepath> has this
        content:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_w11_dgk_54b">&lt;classpath xmlns="http://www.oxygenxml.com/ns/framework/extend">
    &lt;addEntry path="test.jar"/>
&lt;/classpath></codeblock></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
