<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="framework-location">
  <title>Locations Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Preferences<indexterm>Document Type locations</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Framework directory locations</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> allows you to change the location where <xref
        keyref="glossentry_framework"><term>frameworks</term></xref> (document types) are stored,
      and to specify additional <term>framework</term> directories. The
        <uicontrol>Locations</uicontrol> preferences page allows you to specify the main
        <filepath>frameworks</filepath> folder location. You can choose between the
        <uicontrol>Default</uicontrol> directory (<filepath><term
          conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"/>/frameworks</filepath>) or a
        <uicontrol>Custom</uicontrol> specified directory. <ph product="author developer editor">You
        can also change the current <filepath>frameworks</filepath> folder location value using the
          <codeph>com.oxygenxml.editor.frameworks.url</codeph> system property set in either the
          <xref
          href="set-parameters-for-application-launchers.dita#set-parameters-for-application-launchers"
            ><i>.vmoptions</i> configuration files</xref> or in the <xref
          href="set-parameters-command-line-scripts.dita#set-parameters-command-line-scripts"
          >startup scripts</xref>.</ph><ph product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
        >You can also change the current <filepath>frameworks</filepath> folder location value using
        the <codeph>com.oxygenxml.editor.frameworks.url</codeph> system property.</ph></p>
    <p>A list of additional <filepath>frameworks</filepath> directories can also be specified. The
      application will look in each of those folders for additional document type configurations to
      load. Use the <uicontrol>Add</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol> and
        <uicontrol>Delete</uicontrol> buttons to manage the list of folders.</p>
    <p>A document type configuration (<term>framework</term>) can be loaded from the following
        locations:<ul id="ul_ox2_rfs_f4">
        <li>Internal preferences - The document type configuration is stored in the application
            <xref href="the-document-type-dialog.dita#the-document-type-dialog/storage-definition"
              ><uicontrol>Internal</uicontrol> preferences</xref>.</li>
        <li>Additional <term>framework</term> directories - The document type configuration is
          loaded from one of the specified <uicontrol>Additional frameworks directories</uicontrol>
          list.</li>
        <li product="author developer editor">Add-ons - An <xref keyref="glossentry_plugin"
              ><term>add-on</term></xref> can contribute a <term>framework</term>. You can manage
          the add-ons locations in the <xref
            href="preferences-extensions.dita#preferences-extensions">Add-ons preferences
            page</xref>.</li>
        <li>The <filepath>frameworks</filepath> folder - The main folder containing
            <term>framework</term> configurations.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>All loaded document type configurations are first sorted by priority, then by document type
      name and then by load location (in the exact order specified above). When an XML document is
      opened, the application chooses the first document type configuration from the sorted list
      that matches the specific document.</p>
    <p>All loaded document type configurations are first sorted by priority, then by document type. </p>
  </body>
</topic>
