<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_zhp_x14_y4">
  <title>If you are new to XML</title>
  <body>
    <p>If you are new to writing in XML, you will find that writing an XML document is not like
      writing a document in <tm tmtype="tm">Microsoft Word</tm> or <tm tmtype="tm">Adobe
        Framemaker</tm> in several important ways:</p>
    <ul id="ul_qzv_xyn_y4">
      <li>Word and Framemaker are set formats. While you can use template and styles to change how
        documents look, all Word of Framemaker documents are made up of the same structures created
        in the same way. XML, on the other hand, is a basic syntax used to define many different
        document formats that can have different structures that can be created in multiple ways.
        There are many different XML document types in common use, and you or your organizaiton may
        create your own document types. <ph keyref="product"/> comes preconfigured to support many
        of the most common XML document types, such as DITA and Docbook. Because each format has
        different structures and different rules, the way <ph keyref="product"/> behaves, and may of the user
        interface elements will change depending on which type of XML document you are writing. </li>
      <li>XML is a structured text-based format. When you write an XML document in <ph
          keyref="product"/>, you may be using an editor that hides the XML tags, but they are still
        there, and you can see them any time you wish. </li>
      <li>Most XML documents have a set of rules that describe what tags you can and cannot create.
        These rules are defined in a schema. <ph keyref="product"/> validates your document against
        the schema as you type. While <ph keyref="product"/> does everything it can to prevent you
        from typing anything that is not allowed by the schema, schemas rules sometimes require
        multiple elements be created to satisfy a particular rule. As you are typing, some of these
        rules will not have been satisfied yet, and your document will therefore be invalid. This
        does not mean you have done anything wrong. It just means that you are not finished
        yet.</li>
    </ul>
  </body>
</topic>
