<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="git-addon-validation">
    <title>Project Validation</title>
    <body>
    <section id="section_uvx_3pg_5tb">
      <title>Validating Each File Before a Commit</title>
      <p id="p_qkp_wsw_5tb">To enable automatic validation of each file before a commit, select the
          <xref href="git-addon.dita#git-addon/li_jkr_pqy_kpb"><uicontrol>Validate each file before
            committing</uicontrol> option</xref> in the <uicontrol>Git Client</uicontrol>
        preferences page (<menucascade>
          <uicontrol>Git</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Settings</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
        </menucascade>, or <menucascade>
          <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Plugins</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Git Client</uicontrol>
        </menucascade>, or click the <b>Settings</b> button from the toolbar of the <uicontrol>Git
          Staging</uicontrol> view and select <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>). There cannot be
        any unstaged files since they may affect the validation process.</p>
      <p id="p_rkp_wsw_5tb">If validation problems are detected, the commit operation will be
        stopped and a dialog box will appear informing you that the problems can be viewed in the
        "Results" area (in the "Git pre-commit validation" tab). If the <uicontrol>Reject commit
          when validation problems occur</uicontrol> option is selected, the dialog box will include
        a <uicontrol>Commit anyway</uicontrol> button that allows the commit operation to be
        completed even if validation issues have been found.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_dtp_kpg_5tb">
      <title>Validating Before a Push Operation</title>
      <p id="p_qkp_wsw_6tb">To enable automatic validation of the files from "Main Files" folder,
        select the <xref href="git-addon.dita#git-addon/li_jkr_pqy_kpb"><uicontrol>Validate all
            files from the project's "Main Files" folder before pushing</uicontrol> option</xref> in
        the <uicontrol>Git Client</uicontrol> preferences page (<menucascade>
          <uicontrol>Git</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Settings</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
        </menucascade>, or <menucascade>
          <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Plugins</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Git Client</uicontrol>
        </menucascade>, or click the <b>Settings</b> button from the toolbar of the <uicontrol>Git
          Staging</uicontrol> view and select <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>).</p>
      <p id="p_rkp_wsw_6tb"><b> Mail Files </b>support must be enabled and the files
        must be properly inserted in the "Main Files" folder. It is also mandatory that a
        validation scenario be configured because the validation will be based on it. Other
        requirements for this option: the current repository must be the same as the project
        loaded in <b>Project View</b> and there must be no uncommitted changes (if it still
        exists, a dialog box will appear indicating this and giving the possibility to make a
        stash to be applied after project validation). </p>
      <p id="p_rkp_wsw_7tb">If validation problems are detected, the
        push operation will be stopped and a dialog box will appear informing you that the
        problems can be viewed in the "Results" area (in the "Git pre-push validation" tab). If
        the <uicontrol>Reject push when validation problems occur</uicontrol> option is
        selected, the dialog box will include a <uicontrol>Push anyway</uicontrol> button that
        allows the push operation to be completed even if validation issues have been found.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
