<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="git-addon">
  <title>Git Client Add-on</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Add-ons<indexterm>Git support</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Git client add-on</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Git addon</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>An add-on is available that contributes a built-in Git client directly in <ph
        keyref="product"/>. Once the add-on is installed, a <uicontrol>Git Staging</uicontrol> view
      is available that includes various actions that perform common Git commands, such as
        <i>push</i>, <i>pull</i>, <i>change branch</i>, <i>commit</i>, and more. It also includes a
      built-in tool for comparing and merging changes.</p>
    <p>To install this add-on, follow this procedure:<ol id="ol_zdl_rpm_knb">
        <li>Go to <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Install new add-ons</uicontrol>
          </menucascade> to open an add-on selection dialog box. Enter or paste
            <b>https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Addons/default/updateSite.xml</b> in the
            <uicontrol>Show add-ons from</uicontrol> field or select it from the drop-down
          menu.</li>
        <li>Select the <b>Git Client</b> add-on and click <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol>.</li>
        <li>Select the <b>I accept all terms of the end user license agreement</b> option and click
            <uicontrol>Finish</uicontrol>.</li>
        <li>Restart the application.</li>
      </ol></p>
    <p><b>Result:</b> The <uicontrol>Git Staging</uicontrol> view is now available.</p>
    <p>To open the view, select <uicontrol>Git Staging</uicontrol> from the <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Window</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Show View</uicontrol>
      </menucascade> menu (or select <uicontrol>Git Client</uicontrol> from the
        <uicontrol>Tools</uicontrol> menu). If this is your first time opening the view, <ph
        keyref="product"/> will present a dialog box asking if you want to install it. Once
      installed, you need to restart <ph keyref="product"/> and the <uicontrol>Git
        Staging</uicontrol> view will be available.</p>
    <p>For more information, see the <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/Oxygen-Git-Plugin"
        format="html" scope="external">details for this <b>Git Client</b> add-on on
      GitHub</xref>.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
