<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="help-menu">
  <title>Help Menu</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Help <indexterm>Using the Help menu</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_hvl_bgk_54b">The <ph keyref="product"/>
      <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol> menu provides various resources to assist you with your tasks.</p>
    <p id="p_ivl_bgk_54b">This menu includes the following actions or options:<dl
        id="dl_jvl_bgk_54b">
        <dlentry id="dlentry_kvl_bgk_54b">
          <dt>Welcome</dt>
          <dd>This option opens the <uicontrol>Welcome</uicontrol> screen that includes some
            resources to assist you with using <ph keyref="product"/>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="help-dialog">
          <dt><uicontrol product="author developer editor json">Help
              (<shortcut>F1</shortcut>)</uicontrol><uicontrol
              product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">Help Contents</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Use this action<ph product="author developer editor json"> (or the
                  <uicontrol><shortcut>F1</shortcut></uicontrol> key)</ph> to open a dialog box that
              presents<ph product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"> Eclipse help
              topics and it includes a section that is specific to <ph keyref="product"/>. Also, you
              can use the <uicontrol><shortcut>F1</shortcut></uicontrol> key to open a
                <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol> view that presents</ph><ph> a section in the User Manual
              that is appropriate for the context of the current cursor position.<ph
                product="author developer editor json"> If the <uicontrol>Use online
                  help</uicontrol> option is selected, this action will open the User Manual in an
                online mode.</ph></ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="author developer editor json" id="dynamic-help">
          <dt><uicontrol>Show Dynamic Help view</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_mvl_bgk_54b">Use this action to open a view that loads the latest online
              WebHelp version of the <ph keyref="product"/> User Manual, and dynamically opens a
              topic that is relevant to the focused editor, view, or dialog box.</p>
            <p id="p_nvl_bgk_54b">You can also open the <uicontrol>Dynamic Help</uicontrol> view by
              selecting it from the <menucascade>
                <uicontrol>Window</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>Show View</uicontrol>
              </menucascade> menu.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="author developer editor json" id="dlentry_imj_13z_4wb">
          <dt>Download User Manual</dt>
          <dd>Opens the appropriate HTML page for downloading the <ph keyref="product"/> User
            Manual. This action is helpful if your internet access is restricted and you need to
            access the user guide.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="author developer editor json" id="dlentry_ovl_bgk_54b">
          <dt>Install new add-ons</dt>
          <dd>Opens a dialog box that allows you to install new <xref keyref="glossentry_plugin"
                ><term>add-ons</term></xref> to extend the functionality of <ph keyref="product"
            />.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="author developer editor json" id="dlentry_pvl_bgk_54b">
          <dt>Check for add-ons updates</dt>
          <dd>Opens a dialog box that allows you to check for updates on installed <xref
              keyref="glossentry_plugin"><term>add-ons</term></xref>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="author developer editor json" id="dlentry_qvl_bgk_54b">
          <dt>Manage add-ons</dt>
          <dd>Opens a dialog box that allows you to manage installed <xref
              keyref="glossentry_plugin"><term>add-ons</term></xref>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="author developer editor json" id="dlentry_rvl_bgk_54b">
          <dt>Check for a New Version</dt>
          <dd>Use this action to view information about the latest version of <ph keyref="product"
            />.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="author developer editor json" id="dlentry_n43_qxx_twb">
          <dt>Check for notifications</dt>
          <dd>Use this action to have the application check <b>Oxygen's</b> website for news and
            events that will be displayed in a dialog box.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="author developer editor json" id="dlentry_svl_bgk_54b">
          <dt>Browse Oxygen Website</dt>
          <dd>Opens the <ph keyref="product"/> website in your default internet browser.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="author developer editor json" id="dlentry_tvl_bgk_54b">
          <dt>Register</dt>
          <dd>If you encounter problems with your <ph keyref="product"/> license, you can use this
            option to open a dialog box that provides options for obtaining or using a license
            key.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="author developer editor" id="dlentry_uvl_bgk_54b">
          <dt>Lock/Unlock floating license</dt>
          <dd>If you are using a <term>Floating License</term>, you can lock it so that it does not
            get <xref href="release-floating-license.dita#release-floating-license">released to the
              pool</xref> unless you or the system administrator unlocks it. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="report-problem">
          <dt><uicontrol product="author developer editor json">Report problem</uicontrol><uicontrol
              product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">Report Oxygen
              problem</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>You can use this option to open a dialog box that allows you to write the description
            of a problem that was encountered while using the application. You can also select
            additional information to be sent to the technical support team in the five tabs:<ul
              id="ul_vvl_bgk_54b">
              <li id="li_wvl_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>General info</uicontrol> - You can edit your
                contact details in case you want to be contacted for further details or to be
                notified of a resolution.</li>
              <li id="li_xvl_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Class Loader URLs</uicontrol> - You can choose
                whether or not to include the listed <i>Class Loader URLs</i> with your report.</li>
              <li id="li_yvl_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>System properties</uicontrol> - You can choose
                whether or not to include the listed system property details with your report.<note
                  type="tip" id="note_zvl_bgk_54b">You are able to change the URL where the reported
                  problem is sent by using the <codeph>com.oxygenxml.report.problems.url</codeph>
                  system property. The report is sent in XML format through the
                    <codeph>report</codeph> parameter of the POST HTTP method.</note></li>
              <li id="li_awl_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Plugins</uicontrol> - You can choose whether or not
                to include details about your installed <xref keyref="glossentry_plugin"
                    ><term>plugins</term></xref> with your report.</li>
              <li id="li_bwl_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Frameworks</uicontrol> - You can choose whether or
                not to include details about your installed <xref keyref="glossentry_framework"
                    ><term>frameworks</term></xref> with your report.</li>
            </ul></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="author developer editor json" id="dlentry_cwl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Support Center</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Use this option to open the <xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/support.html"
              format="html" scope="external"><ph keyref="product"/> Support Section of the
              Website</xref>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="author developer editor json" id="dlentry_dwl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><menucascade>
              <uicontrol>Support Tools</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Clipboard Inspector</uicontrol>
            </menucascade></dt>
          <dd>Opens a dialog box that displays extensive details of all the transferable objects
            from the clipboard. This is helpful if you experience problems while copying content
            from other applications and pasting it into <ph keyref="product"/>. You can use the
              <uicontrol>Copy</uicontrol> button to copy all of this data and then paste it into an
            email to be sent to the <term>Oxygen</term> support team.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="randomize-xml-text">
          <dt><menucascade>
              <uicontrol>Support Tools</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Randomize XML text content</uicontrol>
            </menucascade></dt>
          <dd>Use this action when you need to send samples to the <term>Oxygen</term> support team
            and you want to keep the text content confidential. It opens a dialog box that allows
            you to select the resources that will have the text content randomized. You can then
            save the resources and send them to the <term>Oxygen</term> support team without fear of
            compromising sensitive or private data.<ph
              product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"> For
              more information, see <xref href="randomize-xml-content.dita#randomize-xml-content"
              />.</ph><note type="warning" id="note_ewl_bgk_54b">Before using this action, it is
              highly recommended that you copy the XML resources to be processed, save them in a
              separate folder, and then process this operation on the copies instead of the original
              files. Otherwise, you may lose your original content. </note></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="author developer editor json" id="tip-of-the-day">
          <dt>Tip of the Day</dt>
          <dd>Opens a dialog box that offers tips for using <ph keyref="product"/>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_fwl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol product="author developer editor json">About</uicontrol><ph
              product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">About Eclipse</ph></dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_gwl_bgk_54b">Use this option<ph
                product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"> and then click the <ph
                  keyref="product"/> icon</ph> to open a dialog box that contains information about
                <ph keyref="product"/> and the installed version.<ph
                product="author developer editor json"> This dialog box includes the following
                tabs:</ph><ul product="author developer editor json" id="ul_hwl_bgk_54b">
                <li id="li_iwl_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Copyright</uicontrol> - This tab contains general
                  information about the product and the version of the product you are using, along
                  with contact details and the <i>SGN</i> number. Details regarding the memory usage
                  are also presented at the bottom of the dialog box.</li>
                <li id="li_jwl_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Libraries</uicontrol> - This tab presents the
                  list of third-party libraries that <ph keyref="product"/> uses. To view the
                  End-User Licence Agreement of each library, double-click it.</li>
                <li id="li_kwl_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Frameworks</uicontrol> - This tab contains a list
                  with the <xref keyref="glossentry_framework"><term>frameworks</term></xref> that
                  are bundled with <ph keyref="product"/>.</li>
                <li id="li_lwl_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>System Properties</uicontrol> - This tab contains
                  a list with system properties and their values. The contextual menu allows you to
                  select and copy the properties.</li>
              </ul></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </body>
  <related-links>
      <link href="problem-report-submitted-on-technical-support-form.dita#problem-report-submitted-on-technical-support-form"
      />
  </related-links>
</topic>
