<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="highlight-component-occurencies-ant">
  <title>Highlight Component Occurrences</title>
  <body>
    <p>When a component (for example <term>property</term> or <term>target</term>) is found at
      current cursor position, <ph keyref="product"/> performs a search over the entire document to
      find the component declaration and all its references. When found, they are highlighted both
      in the document and in the stripe bar, at the right side of the document.<note><ph
          keyref="product"/> also supports occurrences highlight for type and task
        references.</note>Customizable colors are used: one for the component definition and another
      one for component references. Occurrences are displayed until another component is selected
      and a new search is performed. All occurrences are removed when you start to edit the
      document. </p>
    <p>This feature is set on automatic search by default and can be configured in the <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Mark Occurrences</uicontrol>
      </menucascade> page. A search can also be triggered with the <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Search</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Search Occurrences in File <shortcut>(Ctrl (Meta on Mac on
            OS)+Shift+U)</shortcut></uicontrol>
      </menucascade> contextual menu action. Matches are displayed in separate tabs of the
        <uicontrol>Results</uicontrol> view.</p>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="preferences-mark-occurrences.dita#preferences-mark-occurrences"/>
  </related-links>
</topic>
