<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="how_to_cms_auth">
  <title>Implementing a CMS Authentication Mechanism</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Implementing CMS authentication mechanism</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>Suppose you want to impose an authentication step for all users who want to edit documents in
      the <ph keyref="webappProduct"/>. This is usually required when the CMS needs authentication
      before granting access to a file. The <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> provides both a server-side
      and client-side API that allows you to implement such a mechanism.</p>
    <section id="implement_cms_authentication_mechanism">
      <title>CMS Authentication Mechanism</title>
      <p>The following is a list of the basic building blocks of the authentication mechanism:<ul
          id="ul_ucx_slc_cr">
          <li><xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-editor/topics/oxygen-plugin.html"
              format="html" scope="external">Develop a <term>plugin</term></xref> that implements
            the <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/exml/plugin/urlstreamhandler/URLStreamHandlerPluginExtension.html"
              format="html" scope="external"
                ><i>ro.sync.exml.plugin.urlstreamhandler.URLStreamHandlerPluginExtension</i></xref>
            interface. Considering the multiple user context of <ph keyref="webappProduct"/>, the
              <codeph>getURLStreamHandler</codeph> method should return an instance of the <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/ecss/extensions/api/webapp/plugin/URLStreamHandlerWithContext.html"
              format="html" scope="external"
                ><i>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.webapp.plugin.URLStreamHandlerWithContext</i></xref>
            class. <p>By default, this class identifies the users based on the session cookie, so by
              default <codeph>contextId</codeph> is the value of the session cookie. This class can
              use the <xref
                href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/ecss/extensions/api/webapp/SessionStore.html"
                format="html" scope="external">SessionStore</xref> API to store the user
              credentials.</p><note>The user identification mechanism relies on the fact that URLs
              that are present in the XML document (e.g. the source of an image, the target of a
              link or a DITA content reference) are relative URLs. If your documents use absolute
              URLs, you need to implement an <xref href="oxy-url.dita#oxy-url/section_kq1_b1m_3z"
                >extra interface</xref>.</note></li>
          <li>If the CMS rejects the connection attempt with a message that the user is not
            authenticated, you should throw a <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/ecss/extensions/api/webapp/plugin/UserActionRequiredException.html"
              format="html" scope="external"
                ><i>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.webapp.plugin.UserActionRequiredException</i></xref>
            exception. This exception is automatically relayed to the client-side as a <xref
              keyref="jscript_api_WebappMessage"><i>sync.api.WebappMessage</i></xref>
            JavaScript object.</li>
          <li>On the client side, follow these steps:<ol id="ul_gxr_n4c_cr">
              <li>Use the <xref keyref="jscript_api_Editor"
                    ><i>sync.api.Editor.EventTypes.CUSTOM_MESSAGE_RECEIVED</i></xref>
                event to intercept the messages sent from the server-side.</li>
              <li><xref keyref="jscript_api_dialog">Display a dialog box</xref> to collect more
                authentication information from the user.</li>
              <li>Send the credentials to the server, and save them to the <xref
                  href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/ecss/extensions/api/webapp/SessionStore.html"
                  format="html" scope="external">SessionStore</xref>. For this part, you will need
                to implement a secure way to transmit the credentials. This can range from a simple
                  <xref
                  href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/ecss/extensions/api/webapp/plugin/WebappServletPluginExtension.html"
                  format="html" scope="external"
                  >ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.webapp.plugin.WebappServletPluginExtension</xref> to
                an <i>OAuth</i> implementation.</li>
              <li>Retry the operation that triggered the authentication procedure.</li>
            </ol></li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
