<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="huge-file-editor">
  <title>File Sizes Greater than 300 MB</title>
  <body>
    <p>Files tend to become larger and larger mostly because they are frequently used as a format
      for database export or for porting between different database formats. Traditional text
      editors simply cannot handle opening these huge export files, some having sizes exceeding one
      gigabyte, because all the file content must be loaded in memory before the user can actually
      view it.</p>
    <p>The file is split in multiple pages (each having about 1MB in size). Each page is
      individually loaded (and edited) in the <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode by using the special
      horizontal slider located at the top of the editing area. The loading operation is very fast
      and has no upper limit for the size of the loaded file.</p>
    <p>The increase of the maximum size of editable files includes the following restrictions:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>For XML files, only the UTF-8, UTF-16, and ASCII encodings are handled; for all non-XML
        files, the content is considered to be UTF-8.</li>
      <li>Files can be edited in <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> editing mode only.</li>
      <li>The <xref href="automatic-validation.dita">automatic validation</xref> is disabled.</li>
      <li>The XPath filter is disabled in the <xref href="find-replace-dialog.dita"
            ><uicontrol>Find/Replace</uicontrol> dialog box</xref>.</li>
      <li>The bidirectional Unicode support (right-to-left writing) is disabled.</li>
      <li>
        <xref href="preferences-editor-format.dita">The <uicontrol>Format and indent the document on
            open</uicontrol> option</xref> is deselected for non-XML documents. For XML documents,
        the format and indent operation it is done optimizing the memory usage, but it ignores the
        options set in <xref href="preferences-editor-format.dita">the <uicontrol>Format</uicontrol>
          preferences page</xref>.</li>
      <li>The <xref href="outliner-view.dita#outliner-view"><uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol>
          view</xref> is not supported.</li>
      <li>The file content is soft wrapped by default.</li>
      <li>The <xref href="find-replace-dialog.dita#find-replace-dialog"
            ><uicontrol>Find/Replace</uicontrol> dialog box</xref> only supports the
          <uicontrol>Find</uicontrol> action.</li>
      <li>Saving changes is possible if <uicontrol>Safe save</uicontrol> is activated.</li>
      <li>The <uicontrol>undo</uicontrol> operation is not available if you go to other pages and
        come back to the modified page. the Undo operation loses its previous states if the back and
        forth between.</li>
    </ul>
  </body>
</topic>
