<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="icu4j-library-addon">
  <title>ICU4J Library Add-on</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Add-ons<indexterm>ICU4J library</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>xsl:sort for exotic languages</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Sorting exotic languages</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_uyg_dgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> offers an add-on that provides the entire <b>ICU4J</b> JAR library
      used for sorting and collations with XSLT processors. The Saxon 9 XSLT processor has an
      <xmlelement>xsl:sort</xmlelement> element that can be used to sort elements based on their text
      content. If the XML elements contain text in exotic languages, Saxon needs a more powerful
      sort algorithm and this JAR library adds this capability.</p>
    <section id="section_ww2_szg_rsb">
      <title>Manual Installation</title>
      <p id="p_vyg_dgk_54b">To manually install it the add-on, follow these instructions:<ol
          id="ol_wyg_dgk_54b">
          <li id="li_xyg_dgk_54b">Go to <menucascade>
              <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Install new add-ons</uicontrol>
            </menucascade> to open an add-on selection dialog box.</li>
          <li id="li_yyg_dgk_54b">Enter or paste
              <b>https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Addons/default/updateSite.xml</b> in the
              <uicontrol>Show add-ons from</uicontrol> field or select it from the drop-down
            menu.</li>
          <li id="li_zyg_dgk_54b">Select the <b>Contribute ICU4J Library</b> add-on and click
              <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol>.</li>
          <li id="li_azg_dgk_54b">Read the end-user license agreement. Then select the <uicontrol>I
              accept all terms of the end-user license agreement</uicontrol> option and click
              <uicontrol>Finish</uicontrol>.</li>
          <li id="li_bzg_dgk_54b">Restart the application.</li>
        </ol></p>
      <p id="p_czg_dgk_54b"><b>Result:</b> The ICU4J library is now contributed to the <b>Oxygen</b>
        installation directory.</p>
    </section>
    <p id="p_dzg_dgk_54b">For more information, see the <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/oxygenxml.icu4j.i18n"
        format="html" scope="external">details for this <b>Contribute ICU4J Library</b> add-on in
        GitHub</xref>.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
