<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="ignore-resources-working-copy">
  <title>Ignore Resources Not Under Version Control</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>SVN Client<indexterm>Working copy resource management<indexterm>Ignore
              resources</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>Some resources inside your working copy do not need to be subject to version control. These
      resources can be files created by the compiler, <filepath>*.obj</filepath>,
        <filepath>*.class</filepath>, <filepath>*.lst</filepath>, or output folders used to store
      temporary files. Whenever you <xref href="send-changes.dita">commit changes</xref>, <ph
        keyref="apacheSubversion"/> shows your modified files in the commit dialog box, but the
      unversioned files are also listed. Since the unversioned files are committed unless otherwise
      specified, it is difficult to see exactly what you are committing.</p>
    <p>The best way to avoid these problems is to add the derived files to the Subversion ignore
      list. That way they are never displayed in the commit dialog box and only genuine unversioned
      files that must be committed are displayed.</p>
    <p>You can choose to ignore a resource by using the <uicontrol>Add to svn:ignore</uicontrol>
      action in the contextual menu of the <xref href="working-copy-view.dita"><uicontrol>Working
          Copy</uicontrol> view</xref>.</p>
    <p>In the <uicontrol>Add to svn:ignore</uicontrol> dialog box, you can specify the resource to
      be ignored by name or by a custom pattern. The custom pattern can contain the following
      wildcard characters:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>* - Matches any string of characters of any size, including the empty string.</li>
      <li>? - Matches any single character.</li>
    </ul>
    <p>For example, you can choose to ignore all text documents by using the pattern:
      <filepath>*.txt</filepath>.</p>
    <p>The action <uicontrol>Add to svn:ignore</uicontrol> adds a predefined Subversion property
      called <codeph>svn:ignore</codeph> to the parent directory of the specified resource. In this
      property, there are specified all the child resources of that directory that must be ignored.
      The result is visible in the <uicontrol>Working Copy</uicontrol> view. The ignored resources
      are represented with gray icons.</p>
  </body>
</topic>