<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="image-preview">
  <title>Image Preview</title><prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>Image preview pane</indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>Images and SVG files can be previewed in a separate pane. The supported image types are GIF,
      JPEG/JPG, PNG, BMP.</p>
    <p>There are several ways to open an image in the <uicontrol>Image Preview</uicontrol> pane:<ul
        id="ul_k32_c4r_1kb">
        <li>In the <xref href="using-the-project-view.dita#using-the-project-view"
              ><uicontrol>Project</uicontrol> view</xref>, double-click the image name.</li>
        <li>In the <xref href="using-the-project-view.dita#using-the-project-view"
              ><uicontrol>Project</uicontrol> view</xref>, right-click an image and select
            <uicontrol>Preview</uicontrol>.</li>
        <li product="author editor">In the <xref href="dita-maps-manager.dita"><uicontrol>DITA Maps
              Manager</uicontrol> view</xref>, double-click the key definition of the image.</li>
        <li product="author editor">In the <xref href="dita-maps-manager.dita"><uicontrol>DITA Maps
              Manager</uicontrol> view</xref>, right-click the key definition of the image and
          select <uicontrol>Open</uicontrol>.</li>
        <li>In <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode, <uicontrol><shortcut>Ctrl + Mouse
            Click</shortcut></uicontrol> or <uicontrol><shortcut>Ctrl + Enter</shortcut></uicontrol>
          with the cursor located within the image file path.</li>
      </ul>Once the image is displayed in the <uicontrol>Image Preview</uicontrol> pane, you have
      access to some contextual menu actions by right-clicking anywhere in the <uicontrol>Image
        Preview</uicontrol> pane. You can scale the image to its original size (by selecting the
        <uicontrol>1:1</uicontrol> action) or scale it down to fit in the pane (by selecting the
        <uicontrol>Scale to fit</uicontrol> action). Other actions include <uicontrol>Open in System
        Application</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Print preview</uicontrol>, and
        <uicontrol>Print</uicontrol>.</p>
    <p>If the image is an <xref href="SVG-documents.dita">SVG file</xref>, the <uicontrol>Image
        Preview</uicontrol> pane also includes the following other contextual menu actions:
        <uicontrol>Zoom in</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Zoom out</uicontrol>,
        <uicontrol>Rotate</uicontrol>, and <uicontrol>Refresh</uicontrol>.</p>
    <p>While the <uicontrol>Image Preview</uicontrol> view is visible, selecting an image in the
        <xref href="using-the-project-view.dita#using-the-project-view"
          ><uicontrol>Project</uicontrol> view</xref><ph product="author editor"> or <xref
          href="dita-reusable-components-view.dita#dita-reusable-components-view"><uicontrol>DITA
            Reusable Components</uicontrol> view</xref></ph> will automatically display the resource
      in the view.</p>
    <note type="tip">You can drag an image from the <uicontrol>Image Preview</uicontrol> view and
      drop it in a DITA, DocBook, or TEI document. </note>
  </body>
</topic>