<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="import-html">
  <title>Import from HTML Files</title><prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>Importing data from HTML files</indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
      <p id="p_uzy_cgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> offers <ph product="developer developerEclipse">support</ph><ph
        product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse">two methods</ph> for importing HTML
      files into an XML document.<ph product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse"> The first
        method is to simply copy data from an HTML document and paste it into a document in
          <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode, but this is only supported in DITA, DocBook, TEI,
        JATS, and XHTML documents. <ph keyref="product"/> also offers a configurable import wizard
        that works with any type of XML document.</ph></p>
    <section id="smart_paste_method" product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse">
      <title>Smart Paste Method</title>
      <p id="p_vzy_cgk_54b">If you are importing data into DITA, DocBook, TEI, JATS, or XHTML documents, you can open
        the HTML document in your web browser, copy its content, and paste it into your document in
          <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode. </p>
      <p conkeyref="reusables-importing-data/smart-paste-para" id="p_wzy_cgk_54b"/>
    </section>
    <section id="import_wizard_method">
      <title>Import Wizard Method</title>
      <p id="p_xzy_cgk_54b">To use the <uicontrol>Import</uicontrol> wizard to import from HTML files, follow these
          steps:<ol id="procedure-import-from-HTML">
          <li id="li_yzy_cgk_54b">Go to <menucascade product="author developer editor">
              <uicontrol>File</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Import/Convert</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>HTML File to XHTML</uicontrol>
            </menucascade><menucascade product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">
              <uicontrol>File</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Import/Convert</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol keyref="product"/>
              <uicontrol>HTML File to XHTML</uicontrol>
            </menucascade>. The <uicontrol>Import HTML to XHTML</uicontrol> wizard is
            displayed.</li>
          <li product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse" id="li_zzy_cgk_54b">Select a parent folder and file
            name for the resulting XHTML document. </li>
          <li id="li_a1z_cgk_54b">Enter the URL of the HTML document. </li>
          <li id="li_b1z_cgk_54b">Select the type of the resulting XHTML document: <ul id="ul_c1z_cgk_54b">
              <li id="li_d1z_cgk_54b">XHTML5</li>
              <li id="li_e1z_cgk_54b">XHTML 1.0 Transitional</li>
              <li id="li_f1z_cgk_54b">XHTML 1.0 Strict</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li id="li_g1z_cgk_54b">Click the <uicontrol product="author developer editor">OK</uicontrol><uicontrol
              product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">Finish</uicontrol> button.
          </li>
        </ol></p>
      <p id="p_h1z_cgk_54b"><b>Result:</b> The resulting document is an XHTML file containing a DOCTYPE declaration
        that references the XHTML DTD definition on the Web. The parsed content of the imported file
        is transformed to XHTML5, XHTML Transitional, or XHTML Strict depending on the option you
        chose.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
