<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="import-export-global-scenarios">
  <title>Import/Export <ph
      product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">Transformation
      or </ph>Validation Scenarios</title><prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">Import
          Global Transformation Scenarios</indexterm>
        <indexterm product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
          >Export Global Transformation Scenarios</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Import Global Validation Scenarios</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Export Global Validation Scenarios</indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_wcs_bgk_54b">You can export <ph
        product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">global
        transformation and </ph>validation scenarios into specialized <i>scenarios</i> files. You
      can import <ph product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
        >transformation and </ph>validation scenarios from various sources (such as project files,
        <xref keyref="glossentry_framework"><term>framework</term></xref> option files, or exported
      scenario files). <ph product="author developer editor json">The import and export scenario
        actions are available in the <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol> menu</ph><ph
        product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">To access these import and export
        actions, <ph conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to
          <uicontrol>Scenarios Management</uicontrol></ph>. The following actions are available:<dl
        id="dl_xcs_bgk_54b">
        <dlentry id="dlentry_ycs_bgk_54b"
          product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">
          <dt><uicontrol product="author developer editor">Import Transformation
              Scenarios</uicontrol><ph product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
                ><uicontrol>Import Global Transformation Scenarios</uicontrol></ph></dt>
          <dd>Loads a set of transformation scenarios from a project file, <term>framework</term>
            options file, or exported scenarios file. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_zcs_bgk_54b"
          product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">
          <dt><uicontrol>Export Global Transformation Scenarios</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Stores a set of global transformation scenarios in a specialized <i>scenarios</i>
            file.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_ads_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol product="author developer editor json">Import Validation
              Scenarios</uicontrol><ph product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
                ><uicontrol>Import Global Validation Scenarios</uicontrol></ph></dt>
          <dd>Loads a set of validation scenarios from a project file, <term>framework</term>
            options file, or exported scenarios file. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_bds_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Export Global Validation Scenarios</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Stores a set of global validation scenarios in a specialized <i>scenarios</i>
            file.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
    <p id="p_cds_bgk_54b">The <ph
        product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
          ><uicontrol>Export Global Transformation Scenarios</uicontrol> and </ph><uicontrol>Export
        Global Validation Scenarios</uicontrol>
      <ph product="json">option is</ph><ph
        product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">options
        are</ph> used to store all the scenarios in a separate file. Associations between document
      URLs and scenarios are also saved in this file. You can load the saved scenarios using the
        <uicontrol product="author developer editor">Import Transformation
        Scenarios</uicontrol><uicontrol product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
        >Import Global Transformation Scenarios</uicontrol><ph
        product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"> and
        </ph><uicontrol product="author developer editor json">Import Validation
        Scenarios</uicontrol><uicontrol product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
        >Import Global Validation Scenarios</uicontrol> action<ph
        product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">s</ph>. To
      distinguish the existing scenarios and the imported ones, the names of the imported scenarios
      contain the word <i>import</i>.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
