<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="import-export-preferences">
  <title>Importing/Exporting/Resetting Global Options</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Import Global Options</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Export Global Options</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Reset Global Options</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p product="author developer editor svnClient json" id="p_hzr_bgk_54b">Actions for importing,
      exporting, and resetting global options are available in the <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>
      menu. The export operation allows you to save <ph product="svnClient">global
        preferences</ph><ph product="author developer editor json"><xref
          keyref="glossentry_global-options">global preferences</xref></ph> as an XML properties
      file and the import operation allows you to load the property file. You can use this file to
      reload saved options on your computer or to <xref
        href="preferences-storing.dita#preferences-storing" product="author developer editor json"
        >share with others</xref><ph product="svnClient">share with others</ph>.</p>
    <p product="editorEclipse authorEclipse developerEclipse" id="p_izr_bgk_54b">Actions for importing, exporting, and
      resetting global options are available in the preferences page of the <ph keyref="product"/>.
      To open this page, <ph conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/>.
      The export operation allows you to save global preferences as an XML options file and the
      import operation allows you to load the options file. You can use this file to reload the
      options on your computer or to share with others.</p>
    <p id="p_jzr_bgk_54b">The following <ph product="author developer editor svnClient json">actions
        are available in the <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol> menu</ph><ph
        product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">buttons are available at the bottom
        of the preferences page</ph>:<dl id="dl_kzr_bgk_54b">
        <dlentry id="dlentry_lzr_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Reset Global Options</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd product="svnClient">Restores the preferences to the factory defaults.</dd>
          <dd product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse json"
            >Restores the preference to the factory defaults or to <xref
              keyref="options_customizing-default">customized defaults</xref>. This action also
            resets the transformation and validation scenarios to the default scenarios and clears
            recently used document templates.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_mzr_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Import Global Options</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Allows you to import a set of <term>Global Options</term> from an exported XML
            properties file. You can also select a <xref
              href="sharing-projects.dita#sharing-projects/project-file-section"
              product="author developer editor json">project-level options file</xref><ph
              product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">project file</ph>
              (<filepath>.xpr</filepath>) to import all the <term>Global Options</term> that are set
            in that project file. After you select a file, the <uicontrol>Import Global
              Options</uicontrol> dialog box is displayed, and it informs you that the operation
            will only override the options that are included in the imported file. You can select
            the <uicontrol>Reset all other options to their default values</uicontrol> option to
            reset all options to the default values before the file is imported.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="export-global-options">
          <dt><uicontrol>Export Global Options</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Allows you to export <term>Global Options</term> to an XML properties file. Some
            user-specific options that are private are not included. For example, passwords and the
            name of the <i>Review Author</i> is not included in the export operation. </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
    <p id="p_nzr_bgk_54b"><ph product="author developer editor json"><ph keyref="product"/>
        automatically stores your global options in an XML properties file. Depending on the
        platform you are using, this file is located in the following directories:</ph></p>
    <p id="p_ozr_bgk_54b">
      <ul product="editor" id="ul_pzr_bgk_54b">
        <li id="li_qzr_bgk_54b"><filepath>[user-home-folder]\AppData\Roaming\com.oxygenxml</filepath> for Windows</li>
        <li id="li_rzr_bgk_54b"><filepath>[user-home-folder]/Library/Preferences/com.oxygenxml</filepath> for macOS</li>
        <li id="li_szr_bgk_54b"><filepath>[user-home-folder]/.com.oxygenxml</filepath> for Linux</li>
      </ul>
    </p>
    <p id="p_tzr_bgk_54b">
      <ul product="author" id="ul_uzr_bgk_54b">
        <li id="li_vzr_bgk_54b"><filepath>[user-home-folder]\AppData\Roaming\com.oxygenxml.author</filepath> for
          Windows</li>
        <li id="li_wzr_bgk_54b"><filepath>[user-home-folder]/Library/Preferences/com.oxygenxml.author</filepath> for macOS</li>
        <li id="li_xzr_bgk_54b"><filepath>[user-home-folder]/.com.oxygenxml.author</filepath> for Linux</li>
      </ul>
    </p>
    <p id="p_yzr_bgk_54b">
      <ul product="developer" id="ul_zzr_bgk_54b">
        <li id="li_a1s_bgk_54b"><filepath>[user-home-folder]\AppData\Roaming\com.oxygenxml.developer</filepath> for
          Windows</li>
        <li id="li_b1s_bgk_54b"><filepath>[user-home-folder]/Library/Preferences/com.oxygenxml.developer</filepath> for
          macOS</li>
        <li id="li_c1s_bgk_54b"><filepath>[user-home-folder]/.com.oxygenxml.developer</filepath> for Linux</li>
      </ul>
    </p>
    <p id="p_wlh_rp2_1zb">
      <ul product="json" id="ul_xlh_rp2_1zb">
        <li id="li_ylh_rp2_1zb"
            ><filepath>[user-home-folder]\AppData\Roaming\com.oxygenxml.jsoneditor</filepath> for
          Windows</li>
        <li id="li_zlh_rp2_1zb"
            ><filepath>[user-home-folder]/Library/Preferences/com.oxygenxml.jsoneditor</filepath>
          for macOS</li>
        <li id="li_amh_rp2_1zb"><filepath>[user-home-folder]/.com.oxygenxml.jsoneditor</filepath>
          for Linux</li>
      </ul>
    </p>
    <p id="p_d1s_bgk_54b">
      <ph product="svnClient"><ph keyref="product"/> automatically stores your options in an XML
          <filepath>options</filepath> file. Depending on the platform you are using, this file is
        located in the following directories:</ph><ul product="svnClient" id="ul_e1s_bgk_54b">
        <li id="li_f1s_bgk_54b"><filepath>[user-home-folder]\AppData\Roaming\ com.syncrosvnclient</filepath> for
          Windows</li>
        <li id="li_g1s_bgk_54b"><filepath>[user-home-folder]/Library/Preferences/ com.syncrosvnclient</filepath> for macOS</li>
        <li id="li_h1s_bgk_54b"><filepath>[user-home-folder]/. com.syncrosvnclient</filepath> for Linux </li>
      </ul></p>
    <p product="editor" id="p_i1s_bgk_54b">The name of the <filepath>options</filepath> file of <ph keyref="product"/>
      <ph keyref="minorVersion"/> is oxyOptionsSa<ph keyref="minorVersion"/>.xml.</p>
    <p product="author" id="p_j1s_bgk_54b">The name of the <filepath>options</filepath> file of <ph keyref="product"/>
      <ph keyref="minorVersion"/> is oxyAuthorOptionsSa<ph keyref="minorVersion"/>.xml.</p>
    <p product="developer" id="p_k1s_bgk_54b">The name of the <filepath>options</filepath> file of <ph keyref="product"/>
      <ph keyref="minorVersion"/> is oxyDeveloperOptionsSa<ph keyref="minorVersion"/>.xml.</p>
    <p product="json" id="p_tky_sp2_1zb">The name of the <filepath>options</filepath> file of <ph
        keyref="product"/>
      <ph keyref="minorVersion"/> is oxyJSONEditorOptionsSa<ph keyref="minorVersion"/>.xml.</p>
    <p product="svnClient" id="p_l1s_bgk_54b">The name of the <filepath>options</filepath> file of <ph keyref="product"
        /><ph keyref="minorVersion"/> is oxyOptionsSvn8.0.xml.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
