<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="import-https-server-certificate">
  <title>Troubleshooting HTTPS</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>HTTPS troubleshooting</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    
      <p id="p_gjt_bgk_54b">If <ph keyref="product"/> cannot connect to an HTTPS-capable server and
      an error message mentions that it is "unable to find a valid certification path to the
      requested target", the HTTPS server is most likely configured to use a sef-signed certificate
      or uses a certificate issued by an unknown authority that the <i>Java Runtime Environment
        (JRE)</i> that is used by <ph keyref="product"/> does not trust.</p>
    <p id="p_i2t_xkp_4sb">
      <note type="tip" id="note_jjt_bgk_54b">To make <ph keyref="product"/> accept a certificate
        even if it is invalid, <ph conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"
        />, go to <menucascade product="author developer editor">
          <uicontrol>Connection settings</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>HTTP(S)/WebDAV</uicontrol>
        </menucascade><menucascade product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">
          <uicontrol>Network Connection settings</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>HTTP(S)/WebDAV</uicontrol>
        </menucascade>, and select the <uicontrol>Automatically accept a security certificate, even
          if invalid</uicontrol> option.<p id="p_lzx_ykp_4sb">
          <note type="notice" product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
            id="note_kjt_bgk_54b">This <uicontrol>Automatically accept a security certificate, even
              if invalid</uicontrol> option does not influence the entire Eclipse workspace. It is
            limited to URLs that are opened directly by <ph keyref="product"/>.</note>
        </p></note>
    </p>
    <p id="p_r5b_2h1_psb">To trust a certificate, follow this procedure:</p>
      <p id="p_fmd_g3p_4sb">
      <ol id="ol_es3_g3p_4sb">
        <li id="li_fs3_g3p_4sb">Export a certificate into a local file using any HTTPS-capable web
            browser:<p id="p_jdp_n3p_4sb"><u><b>Chrome or Edge</b></u><ol id="ol_i34_q3p_4sb">
              <li id="li_j34_q3p_4sb">Navigate to the page that uses the certificate.</li>
              <li id="li_orw_r3p_4sb">Right-click the page and select
                <uicontrol>Inspect</uicontrol>.</li>
              <li id="li_v23_t3p_4sb">Select the <uicontrol>Security</uicontrol> tab.</li>
              <li id="li_j4g_53p_4sb">Click <uicontrol>View
                    Certificate</uicontrol>.<itemgroup><b>Step Result:</b> A
                    <uicontrol>Certificate</uicontrol> dialog box is displayed.</itemgroup></li>
              <li id="li_dnw_w3p_4sb">Select the <uicontrol>Details</uicontrol> tab of the
                  <uicontrol>Certificate</uicontrol> dialog box.</li>
              <li id="li_enw_w3p_4sb">Click the <uicontrol>Copy to File</uicontrol>
                    button.<itemgroup><b>Step Result:</b> The <uicontrol>Certificate Export
                    Wizard</uicontrol> is started.</itemgroup></li>
              <li id="li_fnw_w3p_4sb"> Follow the instructions in the wizard for the DER encoded
                binary X.509 certificate. Save the certificate to the local file
                  <filepath>server.cer</filepath>.</li>
            </ol></p><p id="p_wxb_qjp_4sb"><u><b>Safari</b></u><ol id="ol_xxb_qjp_4sb">
              <li id="li_yxb_qjp_4sb">Navigate to the page that uses the certificate.</li>
              <li id="li_zxb_qjp_4sb">If there is a <i>"This connection is not private"</i> message,
                click <b>Show Details</b> and in the expanded panel, click <b>view the
                  certificate</b>.</li>
              <li id="li_ayb_qjp_4sb">Otherwise, in the address bar, click the <i>padlock icon</i>
                on the left side of the website name and in the displayed pop-up, click <b>Show
                  Certificate</b>.</li>
              <li id="li_byb_qjp_4sb">Another pop-up box is displayed showing information about the
                  <b>certificate</b>. Drag the large <b>certificate</b> icon to a
                  <term>Finder</term> window. A <filepath>.cer</filepath> file will be created in
                the indicated folder from <term>Finder</term>.</li>
            </ol></p></li>
        <li id="li_kpj_4kp_4sb">Import the local file into the JRE running <ph keyref="product"
            />:<ol id="ol_cyk_qkp_4sb">
            <li id="li_dyk_qkp_4sb">Open a text-mode console with administrative
                rights.<itemgroup>If <ph keyref="product"/> has been installed in a user's home
                directory and includes a bundled JRE, administrative rights are not required. In all
                other cases, administrative rights will be required.</itemgroup></li>
            <li id="li_eyk_qkp_4sb">Go to the <filepath>lib/security</filepath> directory of the JRE
              running <ph keyref="product"/>. You can find the home directory of the JRE in the
                <i>java.home</i> property that is displayed in the <uicontrol>About</uicontrol>
              dialog box (<ph product="author developer editor"><uicontrol>System
                  properties</uicontrol> tab</ph><menucascade
                product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">
                <uicontrol>Installation Details</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>Configuration</uicontrol>
              </menucascade>).<itemgroup>
                <note id="note_fyk_qkp_4sb">On macOS, for the distribution of <ph keyref="product"/>
                  that bundles the JRE from Oracle, the JRE uses the
                    <filepath>.install4j/jre.bundle/Contents/Home/jre/lib/security/cacerts</filepath>
                  path within its installation directory.</note>
              </itemgroup></li>
            <li id="li_gyk_qkp_4sb">Run the following
                command:<itemgroup><codeblock outputclass="language-ini">..\..\bin\keytool -import -trustcacerts -file server.cer -keystore cacerts</codeblock>The
                  <filepath>server.cer</filepath> file contains the server certificate, created
                during the previous step. The <term>keytool</term> requires a password before adding
                the certificate to the JRE <xref keyref="glossentry_keystore"
                  ><term>keystore</term></xref>. The default password is
                  <userinput>changeit</userinput>. If someone changed the default password, then
                that person is the only one who can perform the import.<note type="tip"
                  id="note_hyk_qkp_4sb">If you need to import multiple certificates, you need to
                  specify a different alias for each additional imported certificate with the
                    <codeph>-alias</codeph> command-line argument, as in the following example:<p
                    id="p_iyk_qkp_4sb">
                    <codeblock outputclass="language-ini">..\..\bin\keytool -import -alias myalias1 -trustcacerts -file 
server1.cer -keystore cacerts
 
..\..\bin\keytool -import -alias myalias2 -trustcacerts -file 
server2.cer -keystore cacerts </codeblock>
                  </p></note></itemgroup></li>
          </ol></li>
        <li id="li_aps_vkp_4sb"> Restart <ph keyref="product"/>. </li>
      </ol>
    </p>
  </body>
  <related-links><link href="https-webdav-preferences.dita#https-webdav-preferences"/>
  </related-links>
</topic>
