<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="increase-java-memory">
  <title>Increasing Memory Allocation for Java</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>OutOfMemory</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Out of memory</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Memory issues</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Increase memory</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_lvp_cgk_54b">If you are working with a large project with extensive metadata or key references, you may
      need to increase the amount of memory that is allocated to the Java process that performs the
      publishing.</p>
    <p id="p_svp_cgk_54b">There can be two situations where an out of memory error can be
        triggered:<ul id="ol_v14_wyy_tjb">
        <li id="li_tvp_cgk_54b">From the DITA-OT basic processing (the preparation of the merged
          HTML document).</li>
        <li id="li_uvp_cgk_54b">From the Chemistry PDF CSS processor (the transformation of the
          merged HTML document to PDF).</li>
      </ul></p>
    <section id="section_l45_3jd_bhb">
      <title>When the Transformation is Started from Oxygen</title>
      <p id="p_mvp_cgk_54b">To alter the memory allocation setting from the transformation scenario, follow these
          steps:<ol id="ol_ryn_sjd_bhb">
          <li id="li_nvp_cgk_54b">Open the <uicontrol>Configure Transformation Scenario(s)</uicontrol> dialog box.</li>
          <li id="li_ovp_cgk_54b">Select your transformation scenario, then click <uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol>.</li>
          <li id="li_pvp_cgk_54b">Go to the <uicontrol>Advanced</uicontrol> tab.</li>
          <li>Uncheck the <uicontrol>Prefer using the "dita" command</uicontrol> option</li>
          <li id="li_qvp_cgk_54b">Locate the <uicontrol>JVM Arguments</uicontrol> and increase the default value. For
            instance, to set 2 gigabytes as the maximum amount of memory, you can use:
              <codeph>-Xmx2g</codeph>. If you do not specify the <b>-Xmx</b> value in this field, by
            default, the application will use a maximum of 512 megabytes when used with a 32-bit
            Java Virtual Machine and one gigabyte with a 64-bit Java Virtual Machine.</li>
        </ol><note id="note_rvp_cgk_54b">This memory setting is used by both the DITA-OT process and the Chemistry CSS
          processor. </note></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_dgk_kjd_bhb">
      <title>When the Transformation is Started from the Command Line</title>
      <ul id="ul_atm_3hf_hvb">
        <li><b>If the DITA-OT process fails with Out Of Memory Error:</b> you can change the value
          of the <codeph>ANT_OPTS</codeph> environment variable from a command line for a specific
              session.<p><b>Example:</b> To increase the JVM memory allocation to 1024 MB for a
            specific session, issue the following command from a command prompt (depending on your
            operating system):<ul id="ul_lpr_ljd_bhb">
              <li id="li_xvp_cgk_54b"
                ><b>Windows</b><codeblock outputclass="language-java" id="codeblock_yvp_cgk_54b">set ANT_OPTS=%ANT_OPTS% -Xmx1024M</codeblock></li>
              <li id="li_zvp_cgk_54b"
                ><b>Linux/macOS</b><codeblock outputclass="language-java" id="codeblock_awp_cgk_54b">export ANT_OPTS="$ANT_OPTS -Xmx1024M"</codeblock></li>
            </ul><note type="tip" id="note_bwp_cgk_54b">To persistently change the memory
              allocation, change the value allocated to the <codeph>ANT_OPTS</codeph> environment
              variable on your system.</note></p></li>
        <li><b>If the Chemistry PDF CSS processor fails with an Out Of Memory Error:</b> try adding
          the <codeph>baseJVMArgLine</codeph> parameter to the DITA-OT command line. For
          example:<codeblock outputclass="language-java" id="codeblock_dwp_cgk_54b">-DbaseJVMArgLine=-Xmx2048m</codeblock></li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
