<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="inserting-a-file-at-caret-position">
  <title>Inserting or Opening a File at Caret Position</title><prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>Text Editing Mode<indexterm>insert file at caret position</indexterm><indexterm>open file
            at caret position</indexterm><indexterm>compare file</indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>When editing content in <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode, the following actions (in regards
      to inserting, opening, or comparing files) are available in the <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Document</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>File</uicontrol>
      </menucascade> menu:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Insert file...</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Inserts the content of the file with the specified file path into the current
            document, at the current position of the caret.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Open File at Caret </uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Opens a file (at the caret position) in a new panel. If the file path represents a
            directory path, it will be opened in system file browser. If the file at the specified
            location does not exist, an error dialog box is displayed and it includes a
              <uicontrol>Create new file</uicontrol> button that starts the <uicontrol>New
              document</uicontrol> wizard. This allows you to choose the type or the template for
            the file. If the action succeeds, the file is created with the referenced location and
            name and is opened in a new editor panel.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Open File at Caret in System Application</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Opens the file (identified by its link) or web page (identified by a web link) found
            at caret position. The target is opened in the default system application associated
            with that file type.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Compare...</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Opens the current file in <xref href="file-comparison.dita#file-comparison">the
                <uicontrol>Compare Files</uicontrol> tool</xref>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </body>
</topic>