<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_qsp_nyk_v4">
  <title>System Requirements</title>
  <shortdesc>System requirements for a Mac OS X install</shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Operating system requirements</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>Mac OS X version 10.5 64-bit or later.</p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>CPU</dt>
        <dd>CPU (processor): minimum - <tm tmtype="tm">Intel Pentium III</tm>/<tm tmtype="tm">AMD
          Athlon</tm> class processor, 500 <term>Mhz</term>; recommended - Dual Core class
          processor.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Memory</dt>
        <dd>Minimum - <ph
            product="editor editorEclipse author authorEclipse developer developerEclipse">1 GB
            RAM</ph>
          <ph product="svnClient">512 MB of RAM </ph>; recommended - <ph
            product="editor editorEclipse author authorEclipse developer developerEclipse">2 GB of
            RAM</ph><ph product="svnClient">512 MB of RAM </ph>. </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Storage</dt>
        <dd> minimum - <ph
            product="editor editorEclipse author authorEclipse developer developerEclipse">300 MB
            free disk space</ph>
          <ph product="svnClient">100 MB free disk space</ph>; recommended - <ph
            product="editor editorEclipse author authorEclipse developer developerEclipse">500 MB
            free disk space</ph><ph product="svnClient">200 MB free disk space</ph>.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Tools</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>Installation packages are supplied in compressed archives. Ensure you have installed a
            suitable archive extraction utility with which to extract the archive. The MD5 sum is
            available at <xref
              product="editor author editorEclipse authorEclipse developer developerEclipse"
              href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/download.html" scope="external" format="html">the
              Download page</xref>
            <xref product="svnClient" href="http://www.syncrosvnClient.com/download.html"
              scope="external" format="html">the Download page</xref> for every archive. You should
            check the MD5 sum of the downloaded archive with an MD5 checking tool.</p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Java</dt>
        <dd>
          <ph keyref="product"/> requires Java to run. Mac OS X includes Java by default. <p>
            <ph keyref="product"/> supports only official and stable Java Virtual Machines with the
            version number <ph
              conref="../topics/oxygenEntitiesDictionary.dita#OxygenEntities/minimumJavaVersion"/>
            or later (the recommended version is <ph id="recommendedJavaVersion">1.6.0</ph>) from
            Oracle, formerly Sun Microsystems (available at <xref
              href="http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html"
              scope="external" format="html"
              >http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html</xref>). <ph
              keyref="product"/> may work with JVM implementations from other vendors, but there is
            no guarantee that other implementations will work with future <ph keyref="product"/>
            releases. <ph keyref="product"/> does not work with the GNU libgcj Java Virtual
            Machine.</p><p>To ensure that the correct version of Java is used:</p><ul
            id="ul_e1y_wtf_v4">
            <li>
              <p>Make sure that he PATH environment variable is set to the most current Java Virtual
                Machine installation.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
              <p>Make sure that references to older Java Virtual Machine installations are removed
                from the PATH.</p>
            </li>
          </ul><p>To specify a different Java Virtual Machine for <ph keyref="product"/> to use, set
            the home folder of the desired Java Virtual Machine in one of the
              <codeph>JAVA_HOME</codeph> or <codeph>JDK_HOME</codeph> environment variables. If
              <codeph>JAVA_HOME</codeph> and <codeph>JDK_HOME</codeph> are not set, the <ph
              keyref="product"/> launcher looks for a JVM installed in a standard location on your
            computer and uses it to start the application. </p></dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
  </conbody>
</concept>

