<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="installing-cgm-library">
  <title>Rendering CGM Images (Experimental Support)</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Author editing mode<indexterm>Image rendering<indexterm>CGM
            images</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>XML documents<indexterm>Author Mode editing<indexterm>Image
                rendering<indexterm>CGM images</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>CGM image rendering in Author mode</indexterm>
        <indexterm>JCGM library</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_m3y_bgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> offers a few add-ons that provide experimental support for CGM 1.0
      images. To allow the rendering of CGM images in <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode, <ph
        product="authorEclipse editorEclipse">go to <xref
          href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/oxygenxml.cgm.support.eclipse" format="html"
          scope="external"/> and follow the instructions.</ph><ph product="author editor">follow
        this procedure:</ph></p>
    <ol product="author editor" id="ol_n3y_bgk_54b">
      <li id="li_o3y_bgk_54b">Go to <menucascade>
          <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Install new add-ons</uicontrol>
        </menucascade> to open an add-on selection dialog box. </li>
      <li id="li_p3y_bgk_54b">Enter or paste <b>https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Addons/default/updateSite.xml</b> in
        the <uicontrol>Show add-ons from</uicontrol> field or select it from the drop-down
        menu.</li>
      <li id="li_q3y_bgk_54b">Select the <b>Oxygen CGM support</b> add-on and click <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol>. </li>
      <li id="li_r3y_bgk_54b">Select the <b>I accept all terms of the end user license agreement</b> option and click
          <uicontrol>Finish</uicontrol>. </li>
      <li id="li_s3y_bgk_54b">Restart the application.</li>
    </ol>
    <p product="author editor" id="p_t3y_bgk_54b"><b>Result:</b> You should be able to see CGM images in
        <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode.<note id="note_u3y_bgk_54b">If you want to render CGM images in your PDF
        output, make sure you <xref
          href="adding-libraries-fop-dita-ot.dita#adding-libraries-fop-dita-ot/section_support_for_cgm_images"
          >add support for this image format in the transformation scenario</xref>.</note></p>
    <section id="alternate_method_for_isoview_active_x_component" product="author editor">
      <title>Alternate Method for ISOView Active X Component</title>
      <note type="restriction" id="note_v3y_bgk_54b">This support will only work on 32-bit versions of <ph
          keyref="product"/>.</note>
      <p id="p_w3y_bgk_54b">If you already have the <i>ISOView Active X</i> component for your
        browser installed, you may want to use it to render CGM images instead of the components
        provided in the plugin described above.</p>
      <p id="p_x3y_bgk_54b">To use your existing <i>ISOView Active X</i> component to render CCM images, follow these steps:<ol id="ol_y3y_bgk_54b">
          <li id="li_z3y_bgk_54b"> Go to <menucascade>
              <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Install new add-ons</uicontrol>
            </menucascade> to open an add-on selection dialog box. </li>
          <li id="li_ajy_bgk_54b"> Enter or paste
              <b>https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Addons/default/updateSite.xml</b> in the
              <uicontrol>Show add-ons from</uicontrol> field or select it from the drop-down menu. </li>
          <li id="li_bjy_bgk_54b"> Select <b>CGM Form control (Active X-based)</b> plugin and click
              <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol>. </li>
          <li id="li_cjy_bgk_54b"> Select the <b>I accept all terms of the end user license agreement</b> option and
            click <uicontrol>Finish</uicontrol>. </li>
          <li id="li_djy_bgk_54b"> Restart the application. </li>
          <li id="li_ejy_bgk_54b">
            <p id="p_fjy_bgk_54b">The <b>CGM Form Control</b> plugin automatically renders CGM files in DITA, DocBook,
              and XHTML, so for those <term>frameworks</term>, this step is not necessary. For other
                <xref keyref="glossentry_framework"><term>frameworks</term></xref>, modify your CSS
              according to your particular <term>framework</term>. </p>
            <p id="p_gjy_bgk_54b">If you have an XML:
              <codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_hjy_bgk_54b">&lt;image href="MyCGMFile.cgm"/></codeblock></p>
            <p id="p_ijy_bgk_54b">You need a CSS rule like
              this:<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_jjy_bgk_54b">image[href$=".cgm"],
image[href$=".CGM"]{
    content: oxy_editor(
        saHeavyFormControlClassName , "com.oxygenxml.activex.fctrl.ActiveXFormControl", 
        href, oxy_url(oxy_base-uri() , attr(href)));
} </codeblock></p>
          </li>
        </ol></p>
      <p id="p_kjy_bgk_54b"><b>Result:</b> You should be able to see CGM images in <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol>
        mode.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
