<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="install-eclipse">
    <title>Eclipse Installation</title>
    <body>
    <section id="system_requirements">
      <title>System Requirements</title>
      <p>
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Operating Systems</dt>
            <dd>
              <ul>
                <li>Windows Vista, Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 10, Windows Server 2008, Windows
                  Server 2012</li>
                <li>OS X version 10.8 64-bit or later</li>
                <li>Any Unix/Linux distribution with an available Java SE Runtime Environment
                  version 1.6.0 or later from Oracle</li>
              </ul>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>CPU</dt>
            <dd id="CPU">
              <ul id="ul_lym_bqd_x4">
                <li>Minimum - 1 GHz processor</li>
                <li>Recommended - Dual Core class processor</li>
              </ul>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Memory</dt>
            <dd id="memory.windows">
              <ul>
                <li>Minimum - 2 GB of RAM</li>
                <li>Recommended - 4 GB of RAM</li>
              </ul>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Storage</dt>
            <dd id="storage">
              <ul id="ul_yym_bqd_x4">
                <li>Minimum - 400 MB free disk space</li>
                <li>Recommended - 1 GB free disk space</li>
              </ul>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Java</dt>
            <dd conkeyref="reusables-installation/java.eclipse"/>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Eclipse</dt>
            <dd>The following Eclipse versions are officially supported: <ph
                keyref="currentSupportedEclipseVersions"/>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="update_site_method">
      <title>Update Site Method</title>
      <p>To install the Eclipse plugin using the Update Site method, follow this procedure:<ol>
          <li>Start Eclipse.</li>
          <li>Go to <menucascade>
              <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Install New Software</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Available Software</uicontrol>
            </menucascade>.</li>
          <li>Click <uicontrol>Add</uicontrol> in the <uicontrol>Available Software</uicontrol>
            dialog box.</li>
          <li>Enter <filepath product="editorEclipse"
              >http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/Eclipse/site.xml</filepath><filepath
              product="authorEclipse"
              >http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Author/Eclipse/site.xml</filepath><filepath
              product="developerEclipse"
              >http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Developer/Eclipse/site.xml</filepath> into the
              <uicontrol>Location</uicontrol> field of the <wintitle>Add Site</wintitle> dialog
            box.</li>
          <li>Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol>.</li>
          <li>Select the <uicontrol keyref="product"/> checkbox.</li>
          <li>Click <uicontrol>Next ></uicontrol> and continue with the rest of the installation
            wizard.</li>
          <li>Restart Eclipse when prompted.</li>
          <li>Verify that <ph keyref="product"/> is installed correctly by creating a new XML
            Project. Go to <menucascade>
              <uicontrol>File</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>New</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Other</uicontrol>
            </menucascade> and choose <menucascade>
              <uicontrol keyref="product"/>
              <uicontrol>XML Project</uicontrol>
            </menucascade>.</li>
          <li>When prompted for a license key, enter the license information received in the
            registration email.<note>If you already have a native version of <ph keyref="product"/>
              installed on your computer, you will not be prompted for a license key for the Eclipse
              version. The existing license key will be used automatically.</note></li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="zip_archive_method">
      <title>Zip Archive Method</title>
      <p>To install the Eclipse plugin using the Zip Archive method, follow this procedure:<ol>
          <li><ph><xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/download.html" scope="external"
                format="html">Download</xref></ph> the zip archive with the Eclipse plugin.</li>
          <li>Unzip the downloaded zip archive in the <filepath>dropins</filepath> subdirectory of
            the Eclipse install directory.</li>
          <li>Restart Eclipse.</li>
          <li>Verify that <ph keyref="product"/> is installed correctly by creating a new XML
            Project. Go to <menucascade>
              <uicontrol>File</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>New</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Other</uicontrol>
            </menucascade> and choose <menucascade>
              <uicontrol keyref="product"/>
              <uicontrol>XML Project</uicontrol>
            </menucascade>.</li>
          <li>When prompted for a license key, enter the license information received in the
            registration email.<note>If you already have a native version of <ph keyref="product"/>
              installed on your computer, you will not be prompted for a license key for the Eclipse
              version. The existing license key will be used automatically.</note></li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
