<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="installation.reusables">
  <title>Installation reusables</title>
  <body>
    <p>This topic contains reuable fragments for the installation topics. The reuse strategy is to
      ensure that key values can be edited and compared in one place. We reuse in big chunks as
      reusing highly granular pieces just makes things hard to edit without any real maintainability
      win. In some cases, content that fits in only one topic is still included here and conrefed
      into the topic to keep all the information, such as requirements, in one file for ease of
      editing.</p>
    <section>
      <title>Installation requirements reusables</title>
      <p>In this section, the reusable element is the &lt;dd> element of each &lt;dlentry>. Where
        the requirement is the same across platform, there is one entry per requirement that is used
        in all platforms. Where there are different requirements per platform, the id of the
        reusable &lt;dd> element is in the form requirement.platoform, for instance,
        "memory.windows".</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Operating system  (Windows)</dt>
          <dd id="osrequirements.windows">
            <p>Windows XP, Windows Vista, Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows Server 2003, Windows Server
              2008, Windows Server 2012.<draft-comment author="Mark">Are the listings of Windows
                Server 2003, Windows Server 2008, Windows Server 2012 for desktop installs or for
                server installs? Why is NT Server not on this list, since there is a server install
                procedure for it?</draft-comment></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Operating system  (Windows NT Terminal Server)</dt>
          <dd id="osrequirements.windowsnt">
            <p>Windows NT Terminal Server.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Operating system  (Mac)</dt>
          <dd id="osrequirements.macosx">
            <p>Mac OS X version 10.5 64-bit or later.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Operating system  (Linux)</dt>
          <dd id="osrequirements.linux">
            <p>Any Unix/Linux distribution with an available Java SE Runtime Environment version
              1.6.0 or later from Oracle (formerly from Sun).</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>CPU</dt>
          <dd id="CPU">
            <ul id="ul_lym_bqd_x4">
              <li>Minimum - <tm tmtype="tm">Intel Pentium III</tm>/<tm tmtype="tm">AMD Athlon</tm>
                class processor, 500 <term>Mhz</term></li>
              <li>Recommended - Dual Core class processor.</li>
            </ul>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Memory (Windows)</dt>
          <dd id="memory.windows">
            <ul>
              <li>Minimum - <ph
                product="editor editorEclipse author authorEclipse developer developerEclipse">512
                MB of RAM (1 GB on <tm tmtype="tm">Windows Vista</tm>, Windows 7)</ph>
                <ph product="svnClient">512 MB of RAM (1 GB on Windows Vista and Windows
                  7)</ph></li>
              <li>Recommended - <ph
                product="editor editorEclipse author authorEclipse developer developerEclipse">2
                GB of RAM</ph><ph product="svnClient">512 MB of RAM (2 GB on Windows Vista and
                  Windows 7)</ph>.<draft-comment author="Mark">Need figures for Windows
                    8.</draft-comment></li>
            </ul>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Memory (Windows NT Terminal Server)</dt>
          <dd id="memory.windowsnt">
            <ul>
              <li>Minimum - <ph
                  product="editor editorEclipse author authorEclipse developer developerEclipse">512
                  MB of RAM </ph>
                <ph product="svnClient">512 MB of RAM </ph></li>
              <li>Recommended - <ph
                  product="editor editorEclipse author authorEclipse developer developerEclipse">2
                  GB of RAM</ph><ph product="svnClient">512 MB of RAM</ph>.<draft-comment
                  author="Mark">Are these the correct figures for NT. Also, do we need the numbers
                  for SVN client here? Would someone install the SVN client on NT Terminal
                  Server?</draft-comment></li>
            </ul>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Memory (Mac)</dt>
          <dd id="memory.macosx">
            <ul id="ul_n4r_jlj_x4">
              <li>Minimum - <ph
                  product="editor editorEclipse author authorEclipse developer developerEclipse">1
                  GB RAM</ph>
                <ph product="svnClient">512 MB of RAM </ph></li>
              <li>recommended - <ph
                  product="editor editorEclipse author authorEclipse developer developerEclipse">2
                  GB of RAM</ph><ph product="svnClient">512 MB of RAM </ph></li>
            </ul>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Memory (Linux)</dt>
          <dd id="memory.linux">
            <ul id="ul_my4_plj_x4">
              <li>Minimum - <ph
                  product="editor editorEclipse author authorEclipse developer developerEclipse">512
                  MB of RAM </ph>
                <ph product="svnClient">512 MB of RAM </ph></li>
              <li>Recommended - <ph
                  product="editor editorEclipse author authorEclipse developer developerEclipse">2
                  GB of RAM</ph><ph product="svnClient">512 MB of RAM </ph>.</li>
            </ul>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Storage</dt>
          <dd id="storage">
            <ul id="ul_yym_bqd_x4">
              <li>Minimum - <ph
                  product="editor editorEclipse author authorEclipse developer developerEclipse">300
                  MB free disk space</ph>
                <ph product="svnClient">100 MB free disk space</ph></li>
              <li>Recommended - <ph
                  product="editor editorEclipse author authorEclipse developer developerEclipse">500
                  MB free disk space</ph><ph product="svnClient">200 MB free disk space</ph>.</li>
            </ul>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Tools</dt>
          <dd id="tools">
            <p>Installation packages are supplied in compressed archives. Ensure you have installed
              a suitable archive extraction utility with which to extract the archive. The MD5 sum
              is available at <xref
                product="editor author editorEclipse authorEclipse developer developerEclipse"
                href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/download.html" scope="external" format="html">the
                Download page</xref>
              <xref product="svnClient" href="http://www.syncrosvnClient.com/download.html"
                scope="external" format="html">the Download page</xref> for every archive. You
              should check the MD5 sum of the downloaded archive with an MD5 checking tool available
              on your platform.<draft-comment author="Mark B">This does not appear to be true of all
                platforms. The Windows installer is an EXE. The Linux is a shell script. And I'm
                pretty sure most platforms come with support for the typical archieve formats used
                on them built in, so I am not sure that this needs saying. If a reader downloaded a
                .zip file and did not know what to do with it, however, this topic does not give
                them enough information to figure it out. So this topic should either go away or be
                expanded. </draft-comment></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Java (Windows)</dt>
          <dd id="java.windows">
            <ph keyref="product"/> requires Java to run. If you use the native Windows installer,
              <ph keyref="product"/> will be installed with its own copy of Java. If you use the all
            platforms installer, your system must have a compatible Java virtual machine installed.<p>
              <ph keyref="product"/> supports only official and stable Java Virtual Machines with
              the version number <ph
                conref="../topics/oxygenEntitiesDictionary.dita#OxygenEntities/minimumJavaVersion"/>
              or later (the recommended version is 1.6.0) from Oracle, formerly Sun Microsystems
              (available at <xref
                href="http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html"
                scope="external" format="html"
                >http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html</xref>). <ph
                keyref="product"/> may work with JVM implementations from other vendors, but there
              is no guarantee that other implementations will work with future <ph keyref="product"
              /> updates or releases. <ph keyref="product"/> does not work with the GNU libgcj Java
              Virtual Machine.</p><p>To ensure that the correct version of Java is used:</p><ul>
              <li>
                <p>Make sure that the PATH environment variable is set to the most current Java
                  Virtual Machine installation.</p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>Make sure that references to older Java Virtual Machine installations are removed
                  from the PATH.</p>
              </li>
            </ul><p>To specify a different Java Virtual Machine for <ph keyref="product"/> to use,
              set the home folder of the desired Java Virtual Machine in one of the
                <codeph>JAVA_HOME</codeph> or <codeph>JDK_HOME</codeph> Windows variables. In case
                <codeph>JAVA_HOME</codeph> and <codeph>JDK_HOME</codeph> are not set, the <ph
                keyref="product"/> launcher looks for a JVM installed in a standard location on your
              computer and uses it to start the application. If you use an installer that includes a
              Java Virtual Machine, rename or remove the <filepath>jre</filepath> subdirectory of
              the installation directory for the <codeph>JAVA_HOME</codeph> or
                <codeph>JDK_HOME</codeph> variables to take effect.<draft-comment author="Mark">This
                probably belongs in a troubleshooting topic. Either installtion specific
                troubleshooting or general troubleshooting.</draft-comment><draft-comment
                author="Mark">How do the Java requirements work for Eclipse. Does oXygen simply work
                with Eclipse's Java environment. Is any of this information need for the Eclipse
                install?</draft-comment></p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Java (Mac)</dt>
          <dd id="java.macosx">
            <ph keyref="product"/> requires Java to run. Mac OS X includes Java by default.<p>
              <ph keyref="product"/> uses the first JVM from the list of preferred JVM versions, set
              on your Mac computer, that has the version number <ph
                conref="../topics/oxygenEntitiesDictionary.dita#OxygenEntities/minimumJavaVersion"/>
              or newer. To change the version of the Java Virtual Machine that runs the <ph
                keyref="product"/>, go to Applications -&gt; Utilities -&gt; Java -&gt; Java
              Preferences and drag the new JVM version up in the list of preferred
                versions.</p><p><draft-comment author="Mark">George mentioned a Mac Installer with
                built in Java. What should we say about that here?</draft-comment>
              <ph keyref="product"/> supports only official and stable Java Virtual Machines with
              the version number <ph
                conref="../topics/oxygenEntitiesDictionary.dita#OxygenEntities/minimumJavaVersion"/>
              or later (the recommended version is 1.6.0) from Oracle, formerly Sun Microsystems
              (available at <xref
                href="http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html"
                scope="external" format="html"
                >http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html</xref>). <ph
                keyref="product"/> may work with JVM implementations from other vendors, but there
              is no guarantee that other implementations will work with future <ph keyref="product"
              /> releases. <ph keyref="product"/> does not work with the GNU libgcj Java Virtual
              Machine.</p><p>To ensure that the correct version of Java is used:</p><ul>
              <li>
                <p>Make sure that the PATH environment variable is set to the most current Java
                  Virtual Machine installation.</p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>Make sure that references to older Java Virtual Machine installations are removed
                  from the PATH.</p>
              </li>
            </ul><p>To specify a different Java Virtual Machine for <ph keyref="product"/> to use,
              set the home folder of the desired Java Virtual Machine in one of the
                <codeph>JAVA_HOME</codeph> or <codeph>JDK_HOME</codeph> environment variables. If
                <codeph>JAVA_HOME</codeph> and <codeph>JDK_HOME</codeph> are not set, the <ph
                keyref="product"/> launcher looks for a JVM installed in a standard location on your
              computer and uses it to start the application. </p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Java (Linux)</dt>
          <dd id="java.linux">
            <ph keyref="product"/> requires Java to run. <ph keyref="product"/> supports only
            official and stable Java Virtual Machines with the version number <ph
              conref="../topics/oxygenEntitiesDictionary.dita#OxygenEntities/minimumJavaVersion"/>
            or later (the recommended version is 1.6.0) from Oracle, formerly Sun Microsystems
            (available at <xref
              href="http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html"
              scope="external" format="html"
              >http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html</xref>). <ph
              keyref="product"/> may work with JVM implementations from other vendors, but there is
            no guarantee that other implementations will work with future <ph keyref="product"/>
            releases. <ph keyref="product"/> does not work with the GNU libgcj Java Virtual
              Machine.<p>To ensure that the correct version of Java is used:</p><ul
              id="ul_e1y_wtf_v4">
              <li>
                <p>Make sure that he PATH environment variable is set to the most current Java
                  Virtual Machine installation.</p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>Make sure that references to older Java Virtual Machine installations are removed
                  from the PATH.</p>
              </li>
            </ul><p>To specify a different Java Virtual Machine for <ph keyref="product"/> to use,
              set the home folder of the desired Java Virtual Machine in one of the
                <codeph>JAVA_HOME</codeph> or <codeph>JDK_HOME</codeph> environment variables. If
                <codeph>JAVA_HOME</codeph> and <codeph>JDK_HOME</codeph> are not set, the <ph
                keyref="product"/> launcher looks for a JVM installed in a standard location on your
              computer and uses it to start the application. </p></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
