<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="installing-pdf-library">
  <title>Rendering PDF Images</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Author editing mode<indexterm>Image rendering<indexterm>PDF
            images</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>XML documents<indexterm>Author Mode editing<indexterm>Image
                rendering<indexterm>PDF images</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>PDF image rendering in Author mode</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>Starting with <ph keyref="product"/> version 20.0, PDF images are rendered in
        <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode and PDF output. For previous versions, they are not
      rendered by default. To add such support in previous versions, you need to add the <i>Apache
        PDFBox</i> library<ph product="author editor"> by using one of the following
      procedures</ph>:</p>
    <section id="install_apachepdfbox_libraries_addon" product="author editor">
      <title>Installing the ApachePDFBox Libraries Add-on</title>
      <p><ph keyref="product"/> offers an add-on that contributes the <i>Apache PDFBox</i> library
        for you. To install this add-on, follow these steps:<ol>
          <li>Go to <menucascade>
              <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Install new add-ons</uicontrol>
            </menucascade> to open an add-on selection dialog box. </li>
          <li>Enter or paste
              <b>https://raw.githubusercontent.com/oxygenxml/oxygenxml.pdfimage/master/addon.xml</b>
            in the <uicontrol>Show add-ons from</uicontrol> field.</li>
          <li>Select the <b>ApachePDFBox Libraries</b> add-on and click <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol>. </li>
          <li>Select the <b>I accept all terms of the end user license agreement</b> option and
            click <uicontrol>Finish</uicontrol>. </li>
          <li>Restart the application.<p><b>Result:</b> The Apache PDFBox libraries are now
              contributed to the <b>Oxygen</b> installation directory and you should be able to see
              PDF images in <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode.</p></li>
        </ol></p>
      <p>For more information, see the <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/oxygen-pdf-image"
          format="html" scope="external">details about this <b>ApachePDFBox Libraries</b> add-on in
          GitHub</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="manually_add_apachepdfbox_libraries">
      <title>Manually Adding the ApachePDFBox Libraries</title>
      <p>To manually add the <i>Apache PDFBox</i> library so that PDF images are rendered in
          <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode, follow this procedure:<ol>
          <li>Go to <xref href="http://pdfbox.apache.org/downloads.html" format="html"
              scope="external"/> and download the pre-built PDFBox standalone binary <xref
              keyref="glossentry_jar"><term>JAR</term></xref> files:
                <b><filepath>pdfbox-2.0.3.jar</filepath></b>,
                <b><filepath>fontbox-2.0.3.jar</filepath></b>, and
                <b><filepath>xmpbox-2.0.3.jar</filepath></b>. Alternatively, you can use the
              <codeph>1.8.12</codeph> version of these files, as they have been tested and work
              properly.<note>It is not recommended to use <filepath>pdfbox-app-2.0.3.jar</filepath>
              file instead of the three specified files because it contains additional classes that
              may cause conflicts elsewhere in <ph keyref="product"/>.</note></li>
          <li>Create a subfolder called <filepath>pdfImageJars</filepath> in the <filepath><term
                conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"/>\lib</filepath> directory.</li>
          <li>Copy the downloaded <term>JAR</term> libraries to that newly created subfolder.</li>
          <li product="authorEclipse editorEclipse">Open
              <filepath>OXYGEN_PLUGIN_DIR/META-INF/MANIFEST.MF</filepath> and add a reference to the
              <term>JAR</term> libraries in the <codeph>Bundle-ClassPath</codeph> entry.</li>
          <li><ph product="author editor">Restart the application.</ph><ph
              product="authorEclipse editorEclipse">Restart Eclipse in clean mode (edit the shortcut
              you use to start Eclipse and add <codeph>-clean</codeph> as the first
            argument.)</ph></li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
