<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="installing-and-updating-add-ons">
  <title>Installing and Updating Add-ons in <ph keyref="product"/></title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Add-ons <indexterm>Install new add-ons</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Install new add-ons</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Add-ons <indexterm>Manage add-ons</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Manage add-ons</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Add-ons <indexterm>Check for add-on updates</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Check for add-on updates</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> provides an add-on mechanism that can automatically discover and
      install <ph product="author editor"><xref keyref="customize_frameworks">frameworks</xref> and
        </ph><xref href="packing-and-deploying-addons.dita#packing-and-deploying-addons"
        >plugins</xref> from a remote location. <note>Frameworks that you install through the
        add-ons system are read-only. </note></p>
    <section id="installing_add_ons">
      <title>Installing Add-ons</title>
      <p>To install a new add-on, follow these steps:<ol>
          <li>Go to <menucascade>
              <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Install new add-ons</uicontrol>
            </menucascade>.</li>
          <li>In the displayed dialog box, fill-in the <uicontrol>Show add-ons from</uicontrol> with
            the <xref href="packing-and-deploying-addons.dita#packing-and-deploying-addons">update
              site</xref> that hosts add-ons. If you want to see all <ph keyref="product"/> default
            add-ons, choose the <uicontrol>ALL AVAILABLE SITES</uicontrol> option from the
              <uicontrol>Show add-ons from</uicontrol> drop down. The add-ons list contains the
            name, status, update version, <ph keyref="product"/> version, and the type of the add-on
            (either framework, or plugin). A short description of each add-on is presented under the
            add-ons list.<note>To see all the add-ons from the remote update site, disable
                <uicontrol>Show only compatible add-ons</uicontrol> and <uicontrol>Show only the
                latest version of the add-ons</uicontrol>. Incompatible add-ons are shown only to
              acknowledge their presence on the remote update site. You cannot install an
              incompatible add-on.</note></li>
          <li>By default, only the latest versions of the add-ons that are compatible with the
            current version of <ph keyref="product"/> are displayed.</li>
          <li>Choose the add-ons you want to install, press the <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol> button,
            then follow the on-screen instructions.<note>Accepting the license agreement of the
              add-on is a mandatory step in the installation process.</note><note>All add-ons are
              installed in the <filepath>extensions</filepath> directory inside the <ph
                keyref="product"/>
              <xref href="preferences.dita#preferences/preferences-directory-location">preferences
                directory</xref>.</note></li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="managing_installed_addons">
      <title>Managing installed add-ons</title>
      <p>To manage the installed add-ons, follow these steps:<ol>
          <li>Go to <menucascade>
              <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol> Manage add-ons</uicontrol>
            </menucascade></li>
          <li>The displayed dialog box presents a list of the available updates (compatible with the
            current version of <ph keyref="product"/>) and with the already installed updates. Under
            the updates list, <ph keyref="product"/> presents a short description of each
            update.</li>
          <li>Check for box for a specific add-on, then press <uicontrol>Update</uicontrol> to
            update it (or <uicontrol>Uninstall</uicontrol> to remove it). If there is a newer
            version of the add-on available, <ph keyref="product"/> will download the package and
            install it. Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the installation
              process.<note>Accepting the license agreement of the add-on is a mandatory step in the
              installation process.</note></li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="checking_for_addon_updates">
      <title>Checking for add-on updates</title>
      <p>To check if there are available updates for the installed add-ons, go to <menucascade>
          <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Check for add-ons updates</uicontrol>
        </menucascade>. This action only displays updates that are compatible with the current <ph
          keyref="product"/> version.</p>
    </section>
    <p>To watch a video demonstration about the add-ons support in <ph keyref="product"/>, go to
        <xref href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/demo/AddonsSupport.html" format="html" scope="external"
      />.</p>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="packing-and-deploying-addons.dita#packing-and-deploying-addons"/>
  </related-links>
</topic>
