<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="installation.options">
 <title>Installation Options for <ph keyref="product"/></title>
 <conbody>
  <section product="author developer editor svnClient">
      <title>Choosing how <ph keyref="product"/> runs</title>
      <p>You can install <ph keyref="product"/> to run in a number of ways:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <p>As a desktop application on <xref keyref="eppo.installation.windows">Windows</xref>,
              <xref keyref="eppo.installation.linux">Linux</xref>, or <xref
              keyref="eppo.installation.osx">Mac</xref>.</p>
        </li>
        <li>As a desktop application on a <xref keyref="eppo.installation.linux-server">Unix or
            Linux server</xref> or on <xref keyref="eppo.installation.windows-server">Windows
            Terminal Server</xref>.</li>
        <li product="author editor">
          <p>From within a browser though the <xref keyref="java-webstart-install">Java Web
              Start</xref> technology.</p>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </section>   
   <section>
     <title>Choosing an installer</title>
     <p>You have a choice of installers.</p>
    <p>
      <ul id="ul_scm_tfx_54">
        <li product="author developer editor svnClient">
            <p>The native installer for your platform. On Windows and Linux, the native installer
              can run also in unattended mode.</p>
          </li>
        <li product="author developer editor svnClient">
            <p>The All-platforms installer, which can be used on any supported platform.</p>
          </li>
          <li product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">
            <p>The Update Site installation.</p>
          </li>
          <li product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">
            <p>The Zip archive installation.</p>
          </li>
      </ul>
    </p>
     <p>The installation packages were checked before publication with an antivirus program to make
        sure they are not infected with viruses, trojan horses or other malicious software.</p>
   </section>
   <section>
     <title>Choosing a license option</title>
     <p>You must <xref keyref="install.license-key">obtain and register a license</xref> key to run
          <ph keyref="product"/>. </p>
      <p product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">You can
        choose from two kinds of license:<ul id="ul_fjg_51b_2p">
          <li>A named-person license, which can be used by a single person on multiple
            computers.</li>
          <li>A floating license, which can be used by different people at different times. Only one
            person can use a floating license at a time.</li>
        </ul></p>
   </section>
<section>
  <title>Upgrading, transferring, and uninstalling.</title>
  <p>You can also
        <xref keyref="install.upgrade">upgrade</xref>
        <ph keyref="product"/>, <xref keyref="install.transfer-release-license">transfer a
          license</xref>, or <xref keyref="install.uninstall">uninstall</xref>
        <ph keyref="product"/>.</p>
</section>       
   <section>
     <title>Getting help with installation</title>
   <p>If you need help at any point
     during these procedures, please send us an email at <ph keyref="supportEmail"/>. </p>
   </section>
 </conbody>
</concept>
