<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="integrate-google-search-whresponsive">
  <title>How to Integrate Google Search in WebHelp Responsive Output</title>
  <titlealts product="webhelp-responsive">
    <navtitle>How to Integrate Google Search</navtitle>
  </titlealts>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
          >WebHelp Responsive<indexterm>Google Search</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm product="webhelp-responsive ope">Google Search</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_el4_cgk_54b">It is possible to integrate the <term>Google Search Engine</term> into your <b>WebHelp
        Responsive</b> output and you can specify where you want the results to appear in your
      WebHelp page.</p>
    <section id="using_a_script_outside_of_oxygen_xml_editorauthor">
      <title>Using a Publishing Template</title>
      <p id="p_fl4_cgk_54b">To integrate the <term>Google Search Engine</term> into your WebHelp Responsive output
        using an <xref keyref="wh-publishing-template"><term>Oxygen Publishing
          Template</term></xref>, follow this procedure:<ol id="ol_gl4_cgk_54b">
          <li id="li_hl4_cgk_54b">Go to the <xref href="https://cse.google.com/cse/" format="html" scope="external"
              >Google Custom Search Engine page</xref> using your Google account.</li>
          <li id="li_il4_cgk_54b">Select the <uicontrol>Create a custom search engine</uicontrol> button.</li>
          <li id="li_jl4_cgk_54b">Follow the on-screen instructions to create a search engine component for your
              site.<note type="important" id="note_kl4_cgk_54b">For the <uicontrol>Layout</uicontrol>, you must select
                <uicontrol>Results only</uicontrol> for the <term>Google Search Engine</term> to
              work with <b>Oxygen XML WebHelp Responsive</b>.</note></li>
          <li id="li_ll4_cgk_54b">At the end of this process you should obtain a code snippet that
            looks like
            this:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_ml4_cgk_54b">&lt;script async src="https://cse.google.com/cse.js?cx=xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx">&lt;/script>
&lt;div class="gcse-searchresults-only">&lt;/div></codeblock></li>
          <li id="li_nl4_cgk_54b">Create a folder named <filepath>html-fragments</filepath>, and in
            that folder, create a file named <filepath>google-script.html</filepath>.</li>
          <li>Inside <filepath>google-script.html</filepath>, add only the
              <codeph>&lt;script></codeph> element. The file should look like
            this:<codeblock id="codeblock_fyw_gcj_fdc" outputclass="language-xml">&lt;script async src="https://cse.google.com/cse.js?cx=xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx">&lt;/script></codeblock></li>
          <li>In the <filepath>html-fragments</filepath> folder, create another file named
              <filepath>google-results.html</filepath>.</li>
          <li>Inside <i>google-results.html</i>, add only the <i>&lt;div></i> element and include
            the <codeph>data-autoSearchOnLoad="true" data-queryParameterName="searchQuery"</codeph>
            attributes. The file should look like
              this:<codeblock id="codeblock_xt3_lcj_fdc" outputclass="language-xml">&lt;div class="gcse-searchresults-only" data-autoSearchOnLoad="true" data-queryParameterName="searchQuery">&lt;/div></codeblock><note
              id="note_mgc_ncj_fdc">For more information about other supported attributes, see <xref
                href="https://developers.google.com/custom-search/docs/element#supported_attributes"
                format="html" scope="external">Google Custom Search: Supported
              Attributes</xref>.</note></li>
          <li id="li_ol4_cgk_54b">Open the <xref
              href="whr_publishing_template_contents.dita#template_descritpor_file">template
              descriptor file</xref> associated with your publishing template and add the
              <codeph>webhelp.google.search.script</codeph> parameter in the parameters section,
            setting its value to reference <filepath>google-script.html</filepath>. Then add the
              <codeph>webhelp.google.search.results</codeph> parameter, with its value set to
              <filepath>google-results.html</filepath>.<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_pl4_cgk_54b">&lt;publishing-template>
  ...
  &lt;webhelp>
     ...                
     &lt;parameters>
	     ...
         &lt;parameter 
             name="webhelp.google.search.script" 
             value="html-fragments/google-script.html"
             type="filePath"/>
         &lt;parameter 
             name="webhelp.google.search.results" 
             value="html-fragments/google-results.html"
             type="filePath"/>
     &lt;/parameters>
  &lt;/webhelp>
&lt;/publishing-template></codeblock></li>
          <li id="li_ul4_cgk_54b">Open the <term>DITA Map WebHelp Responsive</term> transformation scenario.</li>
          <li id="li_vl4_cgk_54b">Click the <uicontrol>Choose Custom Publishing Template</uicontrol> link and select
            your template.</li>
          <li id="li_wl4_cgk_54b">Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> to save the changes to the transformation
            scenario.</li>
          <li id="li_xl4_cgk_54b">Run the transformation scenario.<note id="note_vxk_vcj_fdc"
              type="important">The Google search feature will not work locally, it must be deployed
              on an HTTP server.</note></li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="using_oxygen_xml_editorauthor">
      <title>Using a Transformation Scenario in Oxygen XML Editor/Author</title>
      <p id="p_yl4_cgk_54b">To integrate the <term>Google Search Engine</term> into your WebHelp Responsive output
        using a transformation scenario from within <b>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</b>, follow this procedure:<ol id="ol_zl4_cgk_54b">
          <li id="li_am4_cgk_54b">Go to the <xref href="https://cse.google.com/cse/" format="html" scope="external"
              >Google Custom Search Engine page</xref> using your Google account.</li>
          <li id="li_bm4_cgk_54b">Select the <uicontrol>Create a custom search engine</uicontrol> button.</li>
          <li id="li_cm4_cgk_54b">Follow the on-screen instructions to create a search engine for your site.<note
              type="important" id="note_dm4_cgk_54b">For the <uicontrol>Layout</uicontrol>, you must select
                <uicontrol>Results only</uicontrol> for the <term>Google Search Engine</term> to
              work with <b>Oxygen XML WebHelp Responsive</b>.</note></li>
          <li id="li_em4_cgk_54b">At the end of this process you should obtain a code snippet that
            looks like
            this:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_fm4_cgk_54b">&lt;script async src="https://cse.google.com/cse.js?cx=xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx">&lt;/script>
&lt;div class="gcse-searchresults-only">&lt;/div></codeblock></li>
          <li>Create a file named <filepath>google-script.html</filepath>, and add only the
              <codeph>&lt;script></codeph> element. The file should look like
            this:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_iqn_ndj_fdc">&lt;script async src="https://cse.google.com/cse.js?cx=xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx">&lt;/script></codeblock></li>
          <li>Create a file named <filepath>google-results.html</filepath>, add only the
              <i>&lt;div></i> element and include the <codeph>data-autoSearchOnLoad="true"
              data-queryParameterName="searchQuery"</codeph> attributes. The file should look like
              this:<codeblock id="codeblock_g4j_rdj_fdc" outputclass="language-xml">&lt;div class="gcse-searchresults-only" data-autoSearchOnLoad="true" data-queryParameterName="searchQuery">&lt;/div></codeblock><note
              id="note_jdr_22j_fdc">For more information about other supported attributes, see <xref
                href="https://developers.google.com/custom-search/docs/element#supported_attributes"
                format="html" scope="external">Google Custom Search: Supported
              Attributes</xref>.</note></li>
          <li id="li_hm4_cgk_54b">Edit the <term>DITA Map WebHelp Responsive</term> transformation scenario and choose a
              <i>template</i>.</li>
          <li id="li_im4_cgk_54b">Switch to the <uicontrol>Parameters</uicontrol> tab and edit the
              <codeph>webhelp.google.search.script</codeph> parameter to reference the
              <filepath>google-script.html</filepath> file. Then edit the
              <codeph>webhelp.google.search.results</codeph> parameter to reference the
              <filepath>google-results.html</filepath> file.</li>
          <li id="li_nm4_cgk_54b">Click <uicontrol>Ok</uicontrol> and run the transformation
              scenario.<note type="important" id="note_vn3_g2j_fdc">The Google search feature will
              not work locally, it must be deployed on an HTTP server.</note></li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
