<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="introduction">
  <title>Introduction</title>
  <shortdesc>Welcome to the User Manual of <ph keyref="product"/>
    <ph keyref="minorVersion"/>.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Introduction</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse" id="p_pll_bgk_54b"><ph
        keyref="product"/> is a cross-platform application designed to accommodate all of your XML
      editing, authoring, developing, and publishing needs. It is the best XML editor available for
      document development using structured mark-up languages such as <ph>XML</ph>, XSD, Relax NG,
        <ph>XSL</ph>, <ph>DTD</ph>.<ph product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse"> It is a
        comprehensive solution for authors who want to edit XML documents visually, with or without
        extensive knowledge about XML and XML-related technologies. The WYSIWYG-like editor is
        driven by CSS stylesheets associated with the XML documents and offers many innovative,
        user-friendly authoring features that make XML authoring easy and powerful.</ph>
    </p>
    <p product="json"><ph keyref="product"/> is a specialized tool designed for editing JSON
      documents. It offers a wide range of features and views, including Text, Grid, and Author
      editing modes, along with Design mode for JSON Schema. The intuitive interface and
      comprehensive set of tools make it easy to navigate, understand, and modify your JSON, JSON
      Schema files, as well as YAML and OpenAPI files.</p>
    <p id="p_n1p_x4n_nzb" product="json">To see a demonstration of the <ph keyref="product"/>, see:
        <xref
        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/events/2023/webinar_introducing_oxygen_json_editor_the_ultimate_solution_for_json_editing.html"
        format="html" scope="external"><b>Webinar: Introducing Oxygen JSON Editor- The Ultimate
          Solution for JSON Editing</b></xref>.</p>
    <p product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse" id="p_qll_bgk_54b">It offers
      developers <ph product="author authorEclipse editor editorEclipse">and authors </ph>a powerful
        <b>Integrated Development Environment</b> and the intuitive <b>Graphical User
        Interface</b> of <ph keyref="product"/> is easy to use and provides robust functionality
      for content editing, project management, and validation of structured mark-up sources. Coupled
      with <i>XSLT</i> and <i>FOP</i> transformation technologies, <ph keyref="product"/> offers
      support for generating output to multiple target formats, including: <i>PDF</i>, <i>PS</i>,
        <i>TXT</i>, <i>HTML</i>, <i>JavaHelp</i>, <i>WebHelp</i>, and <i>XML</i>.</p>
    <p product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse" id="p_rll_bgk_54b">This user
      guide is focused on describing features, functionality, the application interface, and to help
      you quickly get started. It also includes a vast amount of advanced technical information and
      instructional topics that are designed to teach you how to use <ph keyref="product"/> to
      accomplish your tasks. It is assumed that you are familiar with the use of your operating
      system and the concepts related to XML technologies and structured mark-up.</p>
    <p product="svnClient" id="p_sll_bgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> is a cross-platform application designed to help
      you manage the history of a set of files that change over time and are stored in a central
      repository using a version control system. It is assumed that you are familiar with the basic
      concepts of a version control system.</p>
    <p product="webauthor" id="p_tll_bgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> is a web-based editing platform that utilizes the
      advanced authoring technology of <b>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</b> to bring XML editing and
      reviewing to your mobile devices, as well as your desktop systems. You can collaborate with
      other members of your team to contribute and modify content from anywhere on desktops and
      mobile devices. It has an innovative mobile-first design that allows you to interact with XML
      content in the most efficient and productive way possible. It is an independent product,
      designed to complement the <ph keyref="product"/> suite.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
