<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="json-transforming-xslt">
  <title>Transforming JSON Documents with XSLT</title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_tdg_cgk_54b">There are several methods that can be used to transform JSON documents
      through XSLT processing.</p>
    <section id="section_kz5_nl5_5zb">
      <title>Transforming a JSON Document Directly with XSLT</title>
      <p id="p_lz5_nl5_5zb">
        <ol id="ol_r2q_pl5_5zb">
          <li id="li_s2q_pl5_5zb"><xref href="defining-new-transformation-scenario.dita"
              product="developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse">Create a new transformation
              scenario</xref><xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-editor/topics/defining-new-transformation-scenario.html"
              format="html" scope="external" product="json">Create a new transformation
              scenario</xref> using one of the following types of transformations:<ul
              id="ul_xr3_fp5_5zb">
              <li id="li_yr3_fp5_5zb"><xref href="json-transformation-with-xslt.dita"
                  product="developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse"><uicontrol>JSON
                    Transformation with XSLT</uicontrol></xref><xref
                  href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-editor/topics/json-transformation-with-xslt.html"
                  format="html" scope="external" product="json"><uicontrol>JSON Transformation with
                    XSLT</uicontrol></xref> - This scenario is useful if you want to develop a JSON
                document and the XSLT document is in its final form.</li>
              <li id="li_njf_jp5_5zb"><xref href="xslt-transformation-on-json.dita"
                  product="developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse"><uicontrol>XSLT
                    Transformation on JSON</uicontrol></xref><xref
                  href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-editor/topics/xslt-transformation-on-json.html"
                  format="html" scope="external" product="json"><uicontrol>XSLT Transformation on
                    JSON</uicontrol></xref> - This scenario is useful if you want to develop an XSLT
                document and the JSON document is in its final form.</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li id="li_epj_pp5_5zb">Configure the transformation scenario to suit your needs. In the
              <uicontrol>XSLT</uicontrol> tab, make sure you select the JSON file in the
              <uicontrol>JSON URL</uicontrol> field and the XSL file in the <uicontrol>XSL
              URL</uicontrol> field.</li>
          <li id="li_fkk_mr5_5zb">Run the transformation.</li>
        </ol>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_kwf_zhg_5zb">
      <title>Transforming Multiple JSON Documents at Once</title>
      <p id="p_pvd_c3g_5zb">It is also possible to transform multiple JSON documents at once with
        XSLT processing. To achieve this, select the JSON documents in the
          <uicontrol>Project</uicontrol> view, right-click, and apply or configure a transformation
        scenario.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_cr2_gl5_5zb">
      <title>Transforming a JSON Document Using an XSLT Stylesheet</title>
      <p id="p_dr2_gl5_5zb">
        <ol id="ol_udg_cgk_54b">
          <li id="li_vdg_cgk_54b">Create an XSLT 3.0 stylesheet that has the
              <codeph>xsl:initial-template</codeph>. You can use one of the following two templates
            available in the New Document Wizard.<ul id="ul_wdg_cgk_54b">
              <li id="li_xdg_cgk_54b"><b>XSLT Stylesheet for JSON</b> - Processes a JSON document by
                using a <xref href="https://www.w3.org/TR/xpath-functions-31/#func-json-doc"
                  format="html" scope="external"><codeph>json-doc()</codeph> function</xref> and
                matches the JSON properties from the JSON map.</li>
              <li id="li_ydg_cgk_54b"><b>XSLT Stylesheet for JSON to XML</b> - Processes a JSON
                document by using a <xref
                  href="https://www.w3.org/TR/xpath-functions-31/#func-json-to-xml" format="html"
                  scope="external"><codeph>json-to-xml()</codeph> function</xref> and matches the
                converted XML content.</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li id="li_zdg_cgk_54b">Create a new <uicontrol>XSLT transformation</uicontrol> scenario
            for your stylesheet.</li>
          <li id="li_a2g_cgk_54b">Reference the JSON document that you want to transform using one
            of these two methods:<ul id="ul_b2g_cgk_54b">
              <li id="li_c2g_cgk_54b">In the transformation scenario, click the
                  <uicontrol>Parameters</uicontrol> button in the <uicontrol>XSLT</uicontrol> tab
                and add a parameter that specifies the URL to your JSON document in its value. For
                example, if you are transforming one of the built-in templates mentioned above, the
                  <codeph>input</codeph> parameter is added by default and you could specify the URL
                in its value.</li>
              <li id="li_d2g_cgk_54b">Specify the URL to your JSON document in the stylesheet you
                created. For example, if you use one of the built-in templates mentioned above, you
                would specify the URL in the value of the <codeph>input</codeph> parameter (in the
                  <codeph>xsl:param</codeph> element).</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li id="li_e2g_cgk_54b">Run the transformation.</li>
        </ol>
      </p>
    </section>
    <p id="p_enc_nl5_5zb">
      <note type="tip" id="note_f2g_cgk_54b">There are some sample files in the
          <filepath>[OXYGEN_INSTALL_DIR]/samples/json/transform</filepath> folder that can be used
        to transform a JSON document to XML or HTML.</note>
    </p>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link format="html" href="http://dev.saxonica.com/blog/mike/2017/11/transforming-json.html"
        scope="external">
        <linktext>Blog: Transforming JSON</linktext>
      </link>
      <link format="html" href="https://www.w3.org/TR/xpath-functions-31/#json-functions"
        scope="external">
        <linktext>XSLT Functions on JSON Data</linktext>
      </link>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
