<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="json-transforming-xquery">
  <title>Transforming JSON Documents with XQuery</title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_tdg_cgk_54b">There are several methods that can be used to transform JSON documents
      through XQuery processing.</p>
    <section id="section_kz5_nl5_5zb">
      <title>Transforming a JSON Document Directly with XQuery</title>
      <p id="p_lz5_nl5_5zb">
        <ol id="ol_r2q_pl5_5zb">
          <li id="li_s2q_pl5_5zb"><xref href="defining-new-transformation-scenario.dita"
              product="developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse">Create a new transformation
              scenario</xref><xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-editor/topics/defining-new-transformation-scenario.html"
              format="html" scope="external" product="json">Create a new transformation
              scenario</xref> using one of the following types of transformations:<ul
              id="ul_xr3_fp5_5zb">
              <li id="li_yr3_fp5_5zb"><xref href="json-transformation-with-xquery.dita"
                  product="developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse"><uicontrol>JSON
                    Transformation with XQuery</uicontrol></xref><uicontrol>JSON Transformation with
                    XQuery</uicontrol> - This scenario is useful if you want to develop a
                JSON document and the XQuery document is in its final form.</li>
              <li id="li_njf_jp5_5zb"><xref href="xquery-transformation-on-json.dita"
                  product="developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse"><uicontrol>XQuery
                    Transformation on JSON</uicontrol></xref><uicontrol>XQuery Transformation on
                    JSON</uicontrol> - This scenario is useful if you want to develop an
                XQuery document and the JSON document is in its final form.</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li id="li_epj_pp5_5zb">Configure the transformation scenario to suit your needs. In the
              <uicontrol>XQuery</uicontrol> tab, make sure you select the JSON file in the
              <uicontrol>JSON URL</uicontrol> field and the XQuery file in the <uicontrol>XQuery
              URL</uicontrol> field.</li>
          <li id="li_fkk_mr5_5zb">Run the transformation.</li>
        </ol>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_kwf_zhg_5zb">
      <title>Transforming Multiple JSON Documents at Once</title>
      <p id="p_pvd_c3g_5zb">It is also possible to transform multiple JSON documents at once with
        XQuery processing. To achieve this, select the JSON documents in the
          <uicontrol>Project</uicontrol> view, right-click, and apply or configure a transformation
        scenario.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_yrr_wn5_lbc">
      <title>Transforming a JSON Document Using XQuery</title>
      <p id="p_g2g_cgk_54b">It is possible to transform JSON documents through XQuery processing.<ol
          id="ol_h2g_cgk_54b">
          <li id="li_i2g_cgk_54b">Create an XQuery file.</li>
          <li id="li_j2g_cgk_54b">Create a new <uicontrol>XQuery transformation</uicontrol> scenario
            for your XQuery file.</li>
          <li id="li_k2g_cgk_54b">Reference the JSON document that you want to transform using one
            of these two methods:<ul id="ul_l2g_cgk_54b">
              <li id="li_m2g_cgk_54b">In the transformation scenario, click the
                  <uicontrol>Parameters</uicontrol> button in the <uicontrol>XQuery</uicontrol> tab
                and add a parameter that specifies the URL to your JSON document in its value.</li>
              <li id="li_n2g_cgk_54b">Specify the URL to your JSON document in the XQuery file you
                created.</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li id="li_o2g_cgk_54b">Run the transformation.</li>
        </ol><note type="tip" id="note_p2g_cgk_54b">There is a sample XQuery file in the
            <filepath>[OXYGEN_INSTALL_DIR]/samples/json/transform</filepath> folder that can be used
          to transform a JSON document.</note></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
