<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="JSON-navigate-references">
  <title>Navigating References in JSON Documents</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>JSON documents<indexterm>Navigating references</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_xkf_cgk_54b">When editing JSON documents (or JSON Schema), you can easily navigate
        <xref href="https://json-schema.org/understanding-json-schema/structuring.html#json-pointer"
        format="html" scope="external"><term>JSON Pointer</term></xref> references and hyperlinks by
      using the <uicontrol><shortcut>CTRL + Click</shortcut></uicontrol> shortcut. Holding the
          <uicontrol><shortcut>CTRL</shortcut></uicontrol> key while hovering over a <term>JSON
        Pointer</term> reference or hyperlink will changes the reference to a clickable link.</p>
    <section id="section_wtb_pmq_pyb">
      <title>JSON Schema References</title>
      <p>Referencing allows you to create modular, maintainable, and reusable schemas. It is
        particularly useful when you have multiple instances of a similar structure in your data and
        want to enforce consistency in validation rules.</p>
      <p>A schema can reference another schema using the <codeph>$ref</codeph> (or
          <codeph>$dynamicRef</codeph>) keyword. Its value is a URI-reference that is resolved
        against the schema’s <xref
          href="https://json-schema.org/understanding-json-schema/structuring.html#base-uri"
          format="html" scope="external">Base URI</xref>. When evaluating a <codeph>$ref</codeph>,
        an implementation uses the resolved identifier to retrieve the referenced schema and applies
        that schema to the instance. For more details about structuring JSON schemas, see <xref
          href="https://json-schema.org/understanding-json-schema/structuring.html" format="html"
          scope="external">Understanding JSON Schema: Structuring a complex schema</xref>.</p>
      <ul id="ol_nss_vmq_pyb">
        <li><b>Defining Reusable Schemas</b> - You can define reusable schema components using the
            <codeph>definitions</codeph> (or <codeph>$defs</codeph> for latest drafts) keyword.
          These definitions act as named schemas that you can reference using <codeph>$ref</codeph>
          (or <codeph>$dynamicRef</codeph>).
          <codeblock id="pre_uss_vmq_pyb" outputclass="language-json">{
  "$defs": {
    "person": {
      "type": "object",
      "properties": {
        "name": { "type": "string" },
        "age": { "type": "integer" }
      }
    }
  }
}
(my_schema.json)</codeblock></li>
        <li><b>Referencing a Schema</b> - To reference a schema defined in a definitions block, use
          the <codeph>$ref</codeph> keyword followed by the JSON Pointer of the
            definition.<codeblock id="pre_yss_vmq_pyb" outputclass="language-json">{
  ...
  "type": "object",
  "properties": {
    "person1": { "$ref": "#/$defs/person" },
    "person2": { "$ref": "#/$defs/person" }
  }
}</codeblock><p>In this example, both <codeph>"person1"</codeph> and
              <codeph>"person2"</codeph> properties refer to the <codeph>"person"</codeph> schema
            defined in <codeph>$defs</codeph>.</p></li>
        <li><b>External References</b> - You can also reference schemas from external files using
          their URI. This can be useful when you have multiple schema
            files.<codeblock id="pre_ets_vmq_pyb" outputclass="language-json">{
  "$ref": "my_schema.json#/$defs/person"
}</codeblock><p>Here, the schema at the specified URI is being referenced. You can also
            use <codeph>$id</codeph> to uniquely identify a schema resource and then reference it
            from another file using the same mechanism. The following example sets a custom id for
            the <codeph>"person"</codeph>
            schema:<codeblock id="pre_kcl_2cr_pyb" outputclass="language-json">{
  "$defs": {
    "person": {
      "$id": "#person_info"
      "type": "object",
      "properties": {
        "name": { "type": "string" },
        "age": { "type": "integer" }
      }
    }
  }
}</codeblock></p><p>You can now reference this definition by its <codeph>$id</codeph>,
            not by its JSON
            Pointer:<codeblock id="pre_pbf_ncr_pyb" outputclass="language-json">{
  "$ref": "my_schema.json/#person_info"
}</codeblock></p><p>
            <note id="note_h3g_h45_pyb"><ph keyref="product"/> allows <codeph>$id</codeph> only as
              an URI fragment, not as a relative pointer.</note>
          </p></li>
        <li><b>Combining References with Other Keywords</b> - You can use <codeph>$ref</codeph> in
          combination with other keywords. For instance, you might reference a schema within the
            <codeph>items</codeph> keyword to define an array of a specific
            type:<codeblock id="pre_ogx_p1r_pyb" outputclass="language-json">{
  ...
  "type": "array",
  "items": { "$ref": "#/$defs/person" }
}</codeblock><p>Starting with latest drafts, you can use <codeph>$ref</codeph> in
            conjunction with other type-specific keywords for stricter validation. For example, the
            previous schema can be modified to not allow extraneous properties for a "person"
            object:<codeblock id="pre_hsq_t1r_pyb" outputclass="language-json">{
  ...
  "type": "array",
  "items": { 
      "$ref": "#/$defs/person",
      "additionalProperties": false
  }
}</codeblock></p></li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
