<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="json-transforming">
  <title>Transforming JSON Documents with XSLT</title>
  <body>
    <p>It is possible to transform JSON documents through XSLT processing. To do so, follow these steps:<ol>
        <li>Create an XSLT 3.0 stylesheet that has the <codeph>xsl:initial-template</codeph>. You
          can use one of the following two templates available in the New Document Wizard.<ul>
            <li><b>XSLT Stylesheet for JSON</b> - Processes a JSON document by using a <xref
                href="https://www.w3.org/TR/xpath-functions-31/#func-json-doc" format="html"
                scope="external"><codeph>json-doc()</codeph> function</xref> and matches the JSON
              properties from the JSON map.</li>
            <li><b>XSLT Stylesheet for JSON to XML</b> - Processes a JSON document by using a <xref
                href="https://www.w3.org/TR/xpath-functions-31/#func-json-to-xml" format="html"
                scope="external"><codeph>json-to-xml()</codeph> function</xref> and matches the
              converted XML content.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Create a new <uicontrol>XSLT transformation</uicontrol> scenario for your
          stylesheet.</li>
        <li>Reference the JSON document that you want to transform using one of these two methods:<ul>
            <li>In the transformation scenario, click the <uicontrol>Parameters</uicontrol> button
              in the <uicontrol>XSLT</uicontrol> tab and add a parameter that specifies the URL to
              your JSON document in its value. For example, if you are transforming one of the
              built-in templates mentioned above, the <codeph>input</codeph> parameter is added by
              default and you could specify the URL in its value.</li>
            <li>Specify the URL to your JSON document in the stylesheet you created. For example, if
              you use one of the built-in templates mentioned above, you would specify the URL in
              the value of the <codeph>input</codeph> parameter (in the <codeph>xsl:param</codeph>
              element).</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Run the transformation.</li>
      </ol><note type="tip">There are some sample files in the
          <filepath>[OXYGEN_INSTALL_DIR]/samples/json/transform</filepath> folder that can be used
        to transform a JSON document to XML or HTML.</note></p>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link format="html" href="http://dev.saxonica.com/blog/mike/2017/11/transforming-json.html"
        scope="external">
        <linktext>Blog: Transforming JSON</linktext>
      </link>
      <link format="html" href="https://www.w3.org/TR/xpath-functions-31/#json-functions"
        scope="external">
        <linktext>XSLT Functions on JSON Data</linktext>
      </link>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
