<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="large-file-editor">
  <title>Optimize Loading for Large Files</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Large files</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>If you open a document that exceeds the limit configured in <xref
        href="preferences-editor-open.dita#preferences-editor-open/performance-section"
          ><uicontrol>Open</uicontrol> preferences</xref> (the default limit is 30 MB), a <xref
        href="editing-large-documents.dita">dialog box will be displayed</xref> prompting you to
      choose whether you want to optimize the loading of the document for large files or for huge
      files. If you choose the <uicontrol>Optimize loading for large files</uicontrol> option
      (typically recommended for files smaller than 300 MB), a special memory optimization is
      implemented so that the total memory allocated for the application is not exceeded. A
      temporary buffer file is created on disk and the available free disk space needs to be at
      least double the size of the file you want to open.</p>
    <p>When opening a large file in this optimized editing environment, some editing features are
      disabled, including:<ul>
        <li>The file can only be opened in <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode.</li>
        <li>The <xref href="automatic-validation.dita">automatic validation</xref> is not
          available.</li>
        <li>The XPath filter is disabled in the <xref href="find-replace-dialog.dita">Find/Replace
            dialog box</xref>.</li>
        <li>The bidirectional Unicode support (right-to-left writing) is disabled.</li>
        <li> The <xref href="preferences-editor-format.dita"><uicontrol>Format and indent the
              document on open</uicontrol> option</xref> is automatically deselected for non-XML
          documents. For XML documents, the formatting is done while optimizing the memory usage by
          ignoring the options set in the <xref href="preferences-editor-format.dita"
              ><uicontrol>Format</uicontrol> preferences page</xref>.</li>
        <li>Localizations for the results of an <xref href="xpath-console.dita">XPath
            expression</xref> will be less precise.</li>
      </ul></p>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="huge-file-editor.dita"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
