<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="learned-words">
  <title>Learned Words</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Spell checking<indexterm>Learned words</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Spell checking<indexterm>Add term lists</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>Spell checker engines rely on dictionaries to decide that a word is spelled correctly. To
      instruct the spell checker engine that an unknown word is actually correctly spelled, you need
      to add that word to a list of learned words. There are two ways to do this:<ul>
        <li>Invoke the contextual menu on an unknown word, then select <uicontrol>Learn
            word</uicontrol>.</li>
        <li>Press the <uicontrol>Learn</uicontrol> button from the <xref
            href="using-check-spelling.dita#using-check-spelling"><uicontrol>Spelling</uicontrol>
            dialog box</xref>.</li>
      </ul><note>To delete items from the list of learned words, select <uicontrol>Delete learned
          words</uicontrol> in the <xref
          href="dictionaries-preferences-page.dita#dictionaries-preferences-page"><menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Spell Check</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Dictionaries</uicontrol>
          </menucascade> preferences page</xref>.</note></p>
    <section id="adding_term_lists">
      <title>Adding Term Lists </title>
      <p>Authoring in certain areas of expertise (for example, the pharmaceutical or automobile
        industries) might require the use of specific terms that are not part of the standard spell
        checker dictionary. To avoid marking these terms as errors, <ph keyref="product"/> provides
        a way of adding industry-specific terms to the spell checker engine. This involves creating
        a file (<term>term list</term>) similar in structure to the file used by <ph
          keyref="product"/> for storing <term>learned words</term>.</p>
      <p>The term list files are specific for each language and can also be specific to each domain
        or area of expertise (for example, <term>legal</term>, <term>medical</term>,
          <term>automotive</term>, etc.).</p>
      <p>To create a custom term file, follow this procedure:<ol>
          <li>Create a text file using one of the following naming conventions:<ul>
              <li>
                <p><filepath>&lt;languageCode>-&lt;name>.tdi</filepath></p>
                <p>For example, a term file for a list of French medical terms could be named
                    <filepath>fr-medical.tdi</filepath>.</p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p><filepath>&lt;languageCode_countryCode>-&lt;name>.tdi</filepath></p>
                <p>For example, a term file for a list of English legal terms can be named
                    <filepath>en_US-legal.tdi</filepath> for American English, or
                    <filepath>en_GB-legal.tdi</filepath> for their British counterparts.</p>
              </li>
            </ul></li>
          <li>Edit the term file you just created and add the terms. Make sure that you only add one
            term per line.</li>
          <li>Save the term file in the <ph keyref="product"/> default dictionary location:<ul>
              <li><filepath product="editor editorEclipse"
                  >[HOME_DIR]\AppData\Roaming\com.oxygenxml\spell</filepath>
                <filepath product="developer developerEclipse"
                  >[HOME_DIR]\AppData\Roaming\com.oxygenxml.developer/spell</filepath>
                <filepath product="author authorEclipse"
                  >[HOME_DIR]/AppData/Roaming/com.oxygenxml.author/spell</filepath> folder on
                Windows Vista/7/8/10.</li>
              <li><filepath product="editor editorEclipse">[HOME_DIR]\Application
                  Data\com.oxygenxml\spell</filepath><filepath product="developer developerEclipse"
                  >[HOME_DIR]\Application Data\com.oxygenxml.developer\spell</filepath><filepath
                  product="author authorEclipse">[HOME_DIR]\Application
                  Data\com.oxygenxml.author\spell</filepath> folder on Windows XP.</li>
              <li><filepath product="editor editorEclipse"
                  >[HOME_DIR]/Library/Preferences/com.oxygenxml/spell</filepath>
                <filepath product="developer developerEclipse"
                  >[HOME_DIR]/Library/Preferences/com.oxygenxml.developer/spell</filepath>
                <filepath product="author authorEclipse"
                  >[HOME_DIR]/Library/Preferences/com.oxygenxml.author/spell</filepath> folder on OS
                X.</li>
              <li><filepath product="editor editorEclipse"
                  >[user-home-folder]/com.oxygenxml/spell</filepath>
                <filepath product="developer developerEclipse"
                  >[HOME_DIR]/com.oxygenxml.developer/spell</filepath>
                <filepath product="author authorEclipse"
                  >[HOME_DIR]/com.oxygenxml.author/spell</filepath> folder on Linux.</li>
            </ul></li>
        </ol></p>
      <note>To change the default dictionary location folder go to the <xref
          href="dictionaries-preferences-page.dita#dictionaries-preferences-page"><menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Spell Check</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Dictionaries</uicontrol>
          </menucascade> preferences page</xref>. </note>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
