<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="localizeGUI_eclipse_plugin">
  <title>Localization of the User Interface</title>
  <body>
    <p>To localize the <ph keyref="product"/> Eclipse
            plugin, you ca use one of the following methods:<ul>
                <li>localization through the update site: <p>Start Eclipse, go to <menucascade>
                            <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol>
                            <uicontrol>Install New Software...</uicontrol>
                        </menucascade>. Press Add Site in the <uicontrol>Available
                            Software</uicontrol> tab of the <uicontrol>Software Updates</uicontrol>
                        dialog. Enter <ph product="editorEclipse"><xref
                                href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/Eclipse/site.xml"
                                format="html" scope="external"
                                >http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/Eclipse/site.xml</xref>
                        </ph><ph product="developerEclipse"><xref
                                href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Developer/Eclipse/site.xml"
                                format="html" scope="external"
                                >http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Developer/Eclipse/site.xml</xref>
                        </ph><ph product="authorEclipse"><xref
                                href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Author/Eclipse/site.xml"
                                format="html" scope="external"
                                >http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Author/Eclipse/site.xml</xref>
                        </ph> in the location field of the <uicontrol>Add Site</uicontrol> dialog.
                        Press OK. Select the language pack checkbox.</p></li>
                <li>localization through the zip archive:<p>Go to <xref
                            href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/download.html" format="html"
                            scope="external"/> and download the zip archive with the plugin language
                        pack. Unzip the downloaded zip archive in the dropins subdirectory of the
                        Eclipse install directory. Restart Eclipse. </p></li>
            </ul></p>
    <p>If your operating system is running in the language you want to start Eclipse in (for
            example, you are using Japanese version of Windows XP, and you want to start Eclipse in
            Japanese), <ph keyref="product"/> matches
            the appropriate language from the language pack. However, if your operating system is
            running in a language other than the one you want to start Eclipse in (for example, you
            are using the English version of Windows XP, and you want to start Eclipse in Japanese,
            if you have the required operating system language support including the keyboard
            layouts and input method editors installed), specify the -nl &lt;locale> command line
            argument when you launch Eclipse. <ph
                keyref="product"/> uses the
            translation file which matches the specified &lt;locale>. </p>
        <p>You can also localize the Eclipse plugin to a different language that the initial
            languages in the language pack. Duplicate the <filepath>plugin.properties</filepath>
            file from the <ph keyref="product"/>
            plugin installation directory, translate all the keys in the file and change its name to
            plugin_&lt;locale>.properties. </p>
  </body>
</topic>
