<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="localize-webhelp-responsive">
  <title>How to Localize the Interface of WebHelp Responsive Output</title>
  <titlealts product="webhelp-responsive">
    <navtitle>How to Localize the Interface</navtitle>
  </titlealts>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
          >WebHelp Responsive<indexterm>Localizing interface</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm product="webhelp-responsive ope">Localizing interface</indexterm>
      </keywords>
      <keywords>
        <keyword outputclass="label" product="webhelp-responsive">DITA-OT</keyword>
        <keyword outputclass="label" product="webhelp-responsive">Customization</keyword>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_bf2_2k1_v4b"><ph keyref="product"/> comes with support for the following built-in
      languages: English, French, German, Japanese, and Chinese. It is possible to edit existing
      localization strings or add a new language.</p>
    <p id="p_gg4_cgk_54b">Static labels used in the WebHelp output are stored in translation files that have the
        <i>strings-lang1-lang2.xml</i> name format, where <i>lang1</i> and <i>lang2</i> are ISO
      language codes. For example, the US English labels are kept in the <i>strings-en-us.xml</i>
      file. </p>
    <p id="p_hg4_cgk_54b">These translation files are collected from two locations:<ul id="ul_ig4_cgk_54b">
        <li id="li_jg4_cgk_54b"><b><filepath><term keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"
              />/plugins/org.dita.base/xsl/common</filepath> folder</b> - DITA-OT's default
          translations (generated text for <xmlelement>note</xmlelement>,
            <xmlelement>fig</xmlelement>, and <xmlelement>table</xmlelement> elements).</li>
        <li id="li_kg4_cgk_54b"><b><filepath><term keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"
              />/plugins/com.oxygenxml.webhelp.responsive/oxygen-webhelp/resources/localization</filepath>
            folder</b> - These translations are contributed by the WebHelp plugin and extend the
          default ones provided by DITA-OT. The labels defined in this folder take precedence over
          the DITA-OT defaults.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p id="p_lg4_cgk_54b">There are two major reasons you may want to use modify the translation files: to modify the
      existing strings or to translate to a new language.</p>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="index-japanese-content-webhelp.dita#index-japanese-content-webhelp"/>
      <link keyref="dot-addgeneratedtext"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
