<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="localizing_frameworks">
  <title>Localizing Frameworks</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Framework customization<indexterm>Localizing</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Localizing frameworks</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> supports framework localization (translating framework actions,
      buttons, and menu entries to various languages). This lets you develop and distribute a
      framework to users that speak other languages without changing the distributed framework. <ph
        product="author developer editor">Changing the language used in <ph keyref="product"/> in
        the Global preferences page is enough to set the right language for each framework.</ph></p>
    <p>To localize the content of a framework, create a <filepath>translation.xml</filepath> file
      that contains all the translation (key, value) mappings. The
        <filepath>translation.xml</filepath> has the following format:</p>
    <p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;translation>
    &lt;languageList>
        &lt;language description="English" lang="en_US"/>
        &lt;language description="German" lang="de_DE"/>
        &lt;language description="French" lang="fr_FR"/>
    &lt;/languageList>
    &lt;key value="list">
        &lt;comment>List menu item name.&lt;/comment>
        &lt;val lang="en_US">List&lt;/val>
        &lt;val lang="de_DE">Liste&lt;/val>
        &lt;val lang="fr_FR">Liste&lt;/val>
    &lt;/key>  
......................
&lt;/translation> </codeblock>
    </p>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> matches the GUI language with the language set in the
        <filepath>translation.xml</filepath> file. If this language is not found, the first
      available language declared in the <codeph>languagelist</codeph> tag for the corresponding
      framework is used.</p>
    <p>Add the directory where this file is located to the <uicontrol>Classpath</uicontrol> list
      corresponding to the edited document type.</p>
    <p>After you create this file, you can use the keys defined in it to customize the name
      and description of the following:<ul>
        <li>Framework actions</li>
        <li>Menu entries</li>
        <li>Contextual menus</li>
        <li>Toolbars</li>
        <li>Static CSS content</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>For example, if you want to localize the bold action, <ph
        conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <uicontrol>
        Document Type Association</uicontrol>. Use the <uicontrol>New</uicontrol> or
        <uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol> button to open the <xref
        href="the-document-type-dialog.dita#the-document-type-dialog"><uicontrol>Document
          type</uicontrol> configuration dialog box</xref>, go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol> Actions</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>, and rename the bold action to <codeph>${i18n(translation_key)}</codeph>.
      Actions with a name format other than <codeph>${i18n(translation_key)}</codeph> are not
      localized. <apiname>Translation_key</apiname> corresponds to the key from the translation.xml
      file. </p>
    <p>Now open the <filepath>translation.xml</filepath> file and edit the translation entry if it
      exists or create one if it does not exist. This example presents an entry in the
      translation.xml file:</p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;key value="translation_key">
        &lt;comment>Bold action name.&lt;/comment>
        &lt;val lang="en_US">Bold&lt;/val>
        &lt;val lang="de_DE">Bold&lt;/val>
        &lt;val lang="fr_FR">Bold&lt;/val>
    &lt;/key></codeblock>
    <p>To use a description from the <filepath>translation.xml</filepath> file in the Java code used
      by your custom framework, use the new <xref
        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/ecss/extensions/api/AuthorAccess.html"
        format="html" scope="external"
          ><apiname>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.AuthorAccess.getAuthorResourceBundle()</apiname></xref>
      API method to request the associated value for a certain key. This allows all the dialog boxes
      that you present from your custom operations to have labels translated in multiple
      languages.</p>
    <p>You can also reference a key directly in the CSS
      content:<codeblock outputclass="language-css">title:before{
    content:"${i18n(title.key)} : ";
}</codeblock></p>
    <note>You can enter any language you want in the <codeph>languagelist</codeph> tag and any
      number of keys.</note>
    <p>The <filepath>translation.xml</filepath> file for the DocBook framework is located
          here:<filepath><term conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
        />/frameworks/docbook/i18n/translation.xml</filepath>. In the
        <uicontrol>Classpath</uicontrol> list corresponding to the DocBook document type the
      following entry was added: <codeph>${framework}/i18n/</codeph>.</p>
    <p>To see how the DocBook actions are defined to use these keys for their name and description,
        <ph conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Document Type Association</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol> Actions</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>. If you look in the Java class
        <apiname>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.docbook.table.SADocbookTableCustomizerDialog</apiname>
      available in the <i>oxygen-sample-framework</i> module of the <xref
        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/oxygen_sdk_maven.html" scope="external" format="html">Oxygen
        SDK</xref> Maven archetype, you can see how the new
        <apiname>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.AuthorResourceBundle</apiname> API is used to retrieve
      localized descriptions for various keys.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
