<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="long-lines-document">
  <title>Documents with Long Lines</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Documents with long lines</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_dv5_bgk_54b">When working with documents that contain lines of text that exceed the boundaries of your
      monitor, you might want to see the text wrapped. To do so, use one of the following methods:<ul id="ul_ev5_bgk_54b">
        <li id="li_fv5_bgk_54b">Press <uicontrol><shortcut
              conkeyref="reusable-oxygen-shortcuts-list/ctrl_shift_y_shortcut"/></uicontrol> to
          toggle the line wrap feature for the current document only.</li>
        <li id="li_gv5_bgk_54b">Select the <xref href="preferences-editor-text.dita#preferences-editor-text/line-wrap"
              ><uicontrol>Line wrap</uicontrol></xref> option in the <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol>
          preferences page to apply the line wrap to all documents.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <section id="documents_with_very_long_lines_of_text">
      <title>Features that Might be Affected by Wrapping Lines of Text</title>
      <p id="p_hv5_bgk_54b">Documents that contain thousands of characters per line can affect the performance of <ph
          keyref="product"/>
        <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode. When a certain line length limit is reached (controlled
        from the <xref
          href="preferences-editor-open.dita#preferences-editor-open/optimize-loading-long-lines"/>
        option), <ph keyref="product"/> prompts you to wrap the lines of text. By doing so, the
        following features may be affected to maintain a reasonable level of productivity:<ul id="ul_iv5_bgk_54b">
          <li id="li_jv5_bgk_54b">The editor uses the <codeph>Monospaced</codeph> font.</li>
          <li id="li_kv5_bgk_54b">You cannot set font styles.</li>
          <li id="li_lv5_bgk_54b">Automatic validation is disabled.</li>
          <li id="li_mv5_bgk_54b"><xref href="spell-check-as-you-type.dita#spell-check-as-you-type">Automatic spell
              checking</xref> is disabled.</li>
          <li id="li_nv5_bgk_54b">When editing XML documents, the <uicontrol>XPath</uicontrol> field is disabled in the
              <xref href="find-replace-dialog.dita#find-replace-dialog"
                ><uicontrol>Find/Replace</uicontrol> dialog box</xref>.</li>
          <li id="li_ov5_bgk_54b">Less precise localization for executed XPath expressions in XML documents. The XPath
            executions use SAX sources for a smaller memory footprint. It is recommended to use
            XPath 2.0 instead of XPath 1.0 because it features an increased execution speed and uses
            a smaller memory footprint. Running an XPath expression requires additional memory of
            about 2 or 3 times the size of the document on disk.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
