<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE troubleshooting PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Troubleshooting//EN" "troubleshooting.dtd">
<troubleshooting id="mac-accented-characters-problem">
  <title>Keyboard no Longer Works After Inserting Accented Characters on Mac </title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Mac accented characters</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Mac text input freeze</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Mac restart</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <troublebody>
    <condition id="problem">
      <title>Problem</title>
      <p id="p_ntk_dgk_54b">The macOS has a method for inserting accented characters that is
        triggered by holding a key and then selecting the desired character from a contextual menu.
        When using this method in macOS 10.14 (Mojave) to insert accented characters in <ph
          keyref="product"/>, the keyboard can no longer be used unless I restart the
        application.</p>
    </condition>
    <troubleSolution>
      <cause id="cause">
        <title>Causes</title>
        <p id="p_otk_dgk_54b">This problem is caused by some sort of incompatibility issue with Java
          8 and macOS 10.14 (Mojave).<note id="note_wqb_q2n_15b">Starting with version 25.0, <ph
              keyref="product"/> no longer officially supports Java 8. The minimum officially
            supported version is now Java/OpenJDK 11.</note></p>
      </cause>
      <remedy id="solution">
        <title>Solution</title>
        <steps-informal>
          <p id="p_ptk_dgk_54b">To prevent this problem, you should use an <ph keyref="product"/>
            distribution that includes OpenJDK 17:<ol id="ol_hg1_d2n_zhb">
              <li id="li_qtk_dgk_54b">Uninstall <ph keyref="product"/>:<ol id="ol_nzr_j2n_zhb">
                  <li id="li_rtk_dgk_54b">All data stored in the installation directory will be
                    removed, including any customizations or any other data you have stored within
                    that directory. Therefore, you should make a backup of any data you want to
                    keep.</li>
                  <li id="li_stk_dgk_54b">Remove the application by manually deleting the
                    installation folder and all its contents.</li>
                </ol></li>
              <li id="li_ttk_dgk_54b">Reinstall <ph keyref="product"/> using the distribution that
                includes OpenJDK:<ol id="ol_dpb_t2n_zhb">
                  <li id="li_utk_dgk_54b">Go to the <xref
                      href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/xml_editor/download_oxygenxml_editor.html?os=MacOSX"
                      format="html" scope="external">Oxygen Download page</xref>.</li>
                  <li id="li_vtk_dgk_54b">In the <uicontrol>macOS</uicontrol> tab, click on the
                      <uicontrol>macOS 10.11 and later (Includes OpenJDK 17)</uicontrol> link to
                    download this particular distribution.</li>
                  <li id="li_wtk_dgk_54b">Follow the instructions to install the downloaded
                    installation package.</li>
                </ol></li>
            </ol>
          </p>
        </steps-informal>
      </remedy>
    </troubleSolution>
  </troublebody>
</troubleshooting>
