<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE troubleshooting PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Troubleshooting//EN" "troubleshooting.dtd">
<troubleshooting id="machine-signature-mismatch">
  <title>Server Signature Mismatch Error</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Floating license servers<indexterm>Server signature does not
          match</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Server signature does not match</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Current license was already activated</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <troublebody>
    <condition id="problem">
      <title>Problem</title>
      <p id="p_pln_bgk_54b">I receive an error indicating that <i>the current license was already
          activated on a License Server</i> or that the <i>License Server's Signature does not
          match</i>.</p>
      <p id="p_qln_bgk_54b">During the license activation process, the license key becomes bound to
        a particular license server deployment. This means that a code that uniquely identifies your
        license server deployment (called <term>Server Signature</term>) is sent to the
          <uicontrol>Oxygen</uicontrol> servers, which in turn will sign the license key. The
          <term>Server Signature</term> is computed from the list of network interfaces of the
        server where you deployed the license.</p>
      <p id="p_rln_bgk_54b">When starting the license server, if you receive an error stating that
        your <term>Server Signature</term> does not match, there are several possible causes:</p>
    </condition>
    <troubleSolution>
      <cause id="cause">
        <title>Possible Cause 1</title>
        <p id="p_sln_bgk_54b">The license key was moved to a new server that hosts your license
          server.</p>
      </cause>
      <remedy id="solution">
        <title>Solution</title>
        <steps-informal>
          <p id="p_tln_bgk_54b">Revert to your previous configuration.</p>
        </steps-informal>
      </remedy>
    </troubleSolution>
    <troubleSolution>
      <cause id="possible_cause_2">
        <title>Possible Cause 2</title>
        <p id="p_uln_bgk_54b">A new network interface was changed, added, or activated in the server
          that hosts your license server.<note id="note_vln_bgk_54b">A specific example of when this
            could happen is if the Bluetooth or the WiFi module is activated/deactivated.</note></p>
      </cause>
      <remedy id="solution2">
        <title>Solution</title>
        <steps-informal>
          <p id="p_wln_bgk_54b">If reverting is not possible, contact the <xref keyref="url_support">Oxygen support
              team</xref>.</p>
        </steps-informal>
      </remedy>
    </troubleSolution>
    <troubleSolution>
      <cause id="possible_cause_3">
        <title>Possible Cause 3</title>
        <p id="p_xln_bgk_54b">The license server was restarted from a different location as the previous restart. For
          example, some server configurations will have the Apache Tomcat server installed in a
          versioned folder (<filepath>/usr/local/apache-tomcat-V.V.V</filepath>) with a symbolic
          link to the typical folder (<filepath>/usr/local/tomcat</filepath>). The server can be
          restarted from either location, but it is recommended to always restart from the typical
          folder (<filepath>/usr/local/tomcat</filepath>) and always restart from the same
          location.</p>
      </cause>
      <remedy id="solution3">
        <title>Solution</title>
        <steps-informal>
          <p id="p_yln_bgk_54b">The server simply needs to always be restarted from the same location.</p>
        </steps-informal>
      </remedy>
    </troubleSolution>
  </troublebody>
</troubleshooting>
