<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="managing-highlighted-content">
  <title>Managing Highlighted Content</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Text editing mode<indexterm>Manage highlighted content</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>XML documents<indexterm>Text Mode editing<indexterm>Manage highlighted
              content</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Manage highlighted content in Text Mode</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>While working with XML documents you often have frequent changes to the structure and
      content. You are often faced with a situation where you need to make a slight change in
      multiple places in the same document. <ph keyref="product"/> includes a feature,
        <uicontrol>Manage Highlighted Content</uicontrol>, that is designed to help you achieve
      this.</p>
    <p>When you are in <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode and you perform a search operation or apply
      an XPath that highlights multiple results, you can select the <uicontrol>Manage Highlighted
        Content</uicontrol> action from the contextual menu of any highlight in the document, and
      the following options are available in its submenu:</p>
    <p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Modify All</dt>
          <dd>Use this option to modify (in-place) all the occurrences of the selected content. When
            you use this option, a thin rectangle replaces the highlights and allows you to start
            editing. If matches with different letter cases are found, a dialog box is displayed
            that allows you select whether you want to modify only matches with the same letter case
            or all matches.<note>If you select a very large number of highlights that you want to
              modify using this feature, a dialog box informs you that you may experience
              performance issues. You have the option to either use the <xref
                href="find-replace-dialog.dita#find-replace-dialog"
                  ><uicontrol>Find/Replace</uicontrol> operation</xref>, or continue the
              operation.</note></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Surround All</dt>
          <dd>Use this option to surround the highlighted content with a specific tag. This option
            opens the <uicontrol>Tag</uicontrol> dialog box. The <uicontrol>Specify the
              tag</uicontrol> drop-down menu presents all the available elements that you can choose
            from.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Remove All</dt>
          <dd>Removes all the highlighted content.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
    <p>If you right-click content in another part of the document, other than a highlight, you have
      the option to select the following option:</p>
    <p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Modify All Matches</dt>
          <dd>Use this option to modify (in-place) all the occurrences of the selected content (or
            the contiguous fragment in which the cursor is located). When you use this option, a
            thin rectangle replaces the highlights and allows you to start editing. If matches with
            different letter cases are found, a dialog box is displayed that allows you select
            whether you want to modify only matches with the same letter case or all matches.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
