<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="manage-comments-webhelp-feedback">
  <title><?oxy_comment_start author="steven_higgs" timestamp="20150728T103816+0300" comment="Inserted to get started for EXM-31081. Finish the topic after Bogdan C sends credential info."?>Managing
    Comments in a WebHelp with Feedback System<?oxy_comment_end?></title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>WebHelp with Feedback <indexterm>comment management</indexterm><indexterm>manage
            comments</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>When you installed the WebHelp with Feedback system, you should have been prompted to create
      an administrator account (or a user named <userinput>administrator</userinput> was created by
      default). As an administrator, you have access to manage comments posted in your
      feedback-enabled WebHelp system. You can also manage user roles and configure notification
      options.</p>
    <p>To manage comments, user roles, or notification options, follow these steps:<ol
        id="ol_ahq_fvj_vs">
        <li><?oxy_comment_start author="steven_higgs" timestamp="20150728T103720+0300" comment="This is an assumption, based upon Adrian&apos;s comments in EXM-31081. I need to verify that this procedure is correct once Bogdan C sends credentials to log in as admin."?>At
          the bottom of each specific topic there is a <uicontrol>Comments</uicontrol> navigation
          bar and on the right side there is a <uicontrol>Log in</uicontrol> button. Click this
          button and log in with your administrator credentials. This gives you access to an
            <uicontrol>Admin</uicontrol> button.</li>
        <li>Click the <uicontrol>Admin</uicontrol> button to display an administration panel inside
          the topic.</li>
        <li>Use this panel to manage comments, user roles, or notification
            options.<?oxy_comment_end?><p><?oxy_comment_start author="steven_higgs" timestamp="20150728T143932+0300" comment="Obviously this will be modified appropriately after testing it."?>The
            following options are available:<dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Delete comments</dt>
                <dd>To delete a comment …</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Notification options</dt>
                <dd>There are three types of notification options:<dl>
                    <dlentry>
                      <dt>Reply notification</dt>
                      <dd>Sends a notification when someone makes a reply to your comment.</dd>
                    </dlentry>
                    <dlentry>
                      <dt>Page notification</dt>
                      <dd>Sends a notification if someone else adds a comment on the same page.</dd>
                    </dlentry>
                    <dlentry>
                      <dt>WebHelp notification</dt>
                      <dd>Sends a notification if anyone makes a comment on any page in the WebHelp
                        system.</dd>
                    </dlentry>
                  </dl></dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Modify User Roles</dt>
                <dd>After a user creates an account, they will appear in the administration panel.
                  Click the name of the user to change their role or notification
                  options.<?oxy_comment_end?></dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl></p></li>
      </ol></p>
    <note type="warning">The key used for identifying the page a comment is attached to is the
      relative file path to the output page. Since the output file and folder names mirror the
      source, any change to the file name (or its folder) in the source will affect the comments
      associated with that WebHelp page. If you change the file name or path, the comment history
      for that topic will become orphaned (a change to the topic ID does not affect the comment
      history).
      <?oxy_comment_start author="steven_higgs" timestamp="20150728T144127+0300" comment="I don&apos;t think this is correct. You can only delete."?>You
      can view orphaned comments from the administrative panel.<?oxy_comment_end?></note>
  </body>
</topic>
