<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="markdown-validation">
  <title>Automatic Validation in Markdown Documents</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Markdown documents<indexterm>Validation</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_h33_cgk_54b">Markdown documents are validated automatically as you type. The conversion engine constantly
      tries to parse your changes to display the results in the <i>Preview</i> pane. If a change
      results in an error that prevents the parser from converting the syntax, an error message will
      be displayed in the <uicontrol>DITA</uicontrol> tab or in the <xref
        href="results-view.dita#results-view"><uicontrol>Results</uicontrol> view</xref> at the
      bottom of the editor.</p>
    <p id="p_i33_cgk_54b">Examples of the type of errors that will be reported include headers being in the wrong order
      or the syntax of a document begins with something other than a 1st level header.</p>
    <section id="section_kgq_mqk_nkb"
      product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">
      <title>Validating Markdown Documents with Schematron</title>
      <p id="p_j33_cgk_54b">It is possible to validate Markdown documents with Schematron rules.
        There are two ways to create an association between Markdown documents and Schematron
          files:<ul id="ul_edl_vqk_nkb">
          <li id="li_k33_cgk_54b">You can configure an association using the <xref
              href="preferences-markdown.dita"><uicontrol>Markdown</uicontrol> preferences
              page</xref>. You can specify a Schematron file to validate converted HTML content, as
            well as one to validate converted DITA content.</li>
          <li id="li_l33_cgk_54b">You can create a Schematron association for Markdown documents by
            adding a <xref href="using-XML-Catalogs.dita">catalog mapping</xref> for one of the
            following URIs:<ul id="ul_xh5_tnk_nkb">
              <li id="li_m33_cgk_54b"
                  ><b>http://www.oxygenxml.com/schematron/validation/markdown-as-html</b> - The
                obtained Schematron will be applied over HTML conversions.</li>
              <li id="li_n33_cgk_54b"
                  ><b>http://www.oxygenxml.com/schematron/validation/markdown-as-dita</b> - The
                obtained Schematron will be applied over DITA conversions.</li>
            </ul><p id="p_o33_cgk_54b">The catalog mapping is a fallback in case the Schematron
              validation is disabled in the <xref href="preferences-markdown.dita"
                  ><uicontrol>Markdown</uicontrol> preferences page</xref> or the path to the
              Schematron file is empty.<note type="warning" id="note_p33_cgk_54b">If you are using a
                  <xref href="preferences-dita.dita#preferences-dita/DITA-OT-section">custom version
                  of DITA-OT</xref>, the mapping information might not be generated properly,
                causing issues with the Schematron validation. For example, error locations may not
                be accurate or synchronization may fail.</note></p></li>
        </ul></p>
      <note type="tip" id="note_q33_cgk_54b">Inside the samples folder, there is a
          <filepath>schematron-validation</filepath> folder with some files you can use to see how
        Schematron validation can be done with Markdown files. The path of the folder is:
          <filepath>[OXYGEN_INSTALL_DIR]/samples/markdown/schematron-validation/</filepath>.</note>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist><title>Related Information:</title><link href="markdown-editor.dita#markdown-editor"/></linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
