<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="mathjax-webhelp2">
  <title>How to Add MathML Equations in WebHelp Output</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>MathML equations in WebHelp output</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>Currently, only <b>Firefox</b> can render <b>MathML</b> equations embedded in the <b>HTML</b>
      code. <xref href="http://www.mathjax.org/" format="html" scope="external">MathJax</xref> is a
      solution to properly view MathML equations embedded in <b>HTML</b> content in a variety of
      browsers.</p>
    <p>If you have DocBook or DITA content that has embedded <b>MathML</b> equations and you want to
      properly view the equations in published HTML output types (such as WebHelp), you need to add
      a reference to the MathJax script in the <b>head</b> element of all HTML files that have the
      equation embedded.</p>
    <p>For example:
      <codeblock outputclass="language-bourne">&lt;script type="text/javascript"
  src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/mathjax/2.7.1/MathJax.js?config=TeX-AMS-MML_HTMLorMML">
&lt;/script></codeblock></p>
    <p>For DITA documents, you can also use the following procedure:<ol>
        <li>Edit a <uicontrol>DITA Map WebHelp</uicontrol> transformation scenario and open the
            <uicontrol>Parameters</uicontrol> tab.</li>
        <li>Set the following parameter to point to an XML resource file that contains your script,
          depending on your type of WebHelp system.<ul>
            <li><b>WebHelp Responsive Systems</b> - Set the <codeph>webhelp.fragment.head</codeph>
              parameter to point to your resource file.</li>
            <li><b>WebHelp Classic Systems</b> - Set the <codeph>webhelp.head.script</codeph>
              parameter to point to your resource file.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Run the transformation scenario.</li>
      </ol></p>
    <p><b>Result:</b> The equation should now be properly rendered in the WebHelp output for other
      browsers.</p>
    <section id="how_to_add_support_for_mathml_when_generating_web">
      <title>How to Add Support for MathML when Generating WebHelp from a Command Line</title>
      <p>
        <ol id="ol_lrt_1vq_kjb">
          <li>Download and unzip the <xref
              href="https://github.com/dita-community/dita13-dita-ot-1.x-support" format="html"
              scope="external"><b>DITA 1.3 Support for Open Toolkit 1.x</b> distribution
              package</xref>. It includes 4 DITA-OT plugins.</li>
          <li>Copy the four plugin directories to your <filepath><abbreviated-form
                keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"/>/plugins</filepath> directory.</li>
          <li>In the home directory of your DITA-OT installation, run the <codeph>ant -f
              integrator.xml</codeph> command.</li>
        </ol>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
