<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/task.dtd">
<task id="merge-revisions-range">
  <title>Merge Revisions</title>
  <taskbody>
    <context>
      <p>This case is when you have made one or more changes to a branch and you want to duplicate
        them in another branch. For example, suppose you know that a problem has been fixed by
        committing revisions <codeph>17</codeph>, <codeph>20</codeph>, and <codeph>25</codeph> on
        branch <codeph>B1</codeph>. These changes are also needed in branch <codeph>B2</codeph>.
        Thus, to merge them, you need a working copy of the <codeph>B2</codeph> branch.</p>
      <p>To merge revisions from a different branch, follow these steps:</p>
    </context>
    <steps>
      <step id="start-wizard">
        <cmd>Go to menu <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Tools</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Merge</uicontrol>
          </menucascade>.</cmd>
        <stepresult>The <uicontrol>Merge</uicontrol> wizard is opened.</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Select the <uicontrol>Merge revisions</uicontrol> option.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step id="pre-merge-checks-step">
        <cmd>It is recommended that you select the <uicontrol>Perform pre-merge best practices
            checks of the working copy target</uicontrol> option to make sure that the working copy
          target item is ready for the merge operation.</cmd>
        <substeps id="substeps_b4c_vqr_4r">
          <substep>
            <cmd>Press the <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol> button.</cmd>
            <stepresult>If the <uicontrol>Perform pre-merge best practices checks of the working
                copy target</uicontrol> option is selected, <xref
                href="pre-merge-checks.dita#pre-merge-checks">the <uicontrol>Pre-Merge
                  Checks</uicontrol> wizard page</xref> is displayed.<note>If errors are found you
                need to solve them before proceeding.</note></stepresult>
          </substep>
        </substeps>
      </step>
      <step id="merge_wizard_second_page">
        <cmd>Press the <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol> button.</cmd>
        <stepresult>The <uicontrol>Merge revisions</uicontrol> wizard page is
          displayed.</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the <b>Merge from (URL)</b> text box, enter <xref
            href="entering-local-paths-urls.dita#entering-local-paths-urls/url-section">the URL of
            the <term>branch</term> or <term>tag</term></xref> that contain the changes that you
          want to duplicate in your working copy. In our example, it is the URL of the
            <codeph>B1</codeph> branch.</cmd>
        <info><ph id="merge_browse_source_repository">You may also click the
              <uicontrol>Browse</uicontrol> button to browse the repository and find the desired
            branch. If you have previously merged from this branch, then you can simply use the drop
            down menu, which displays a history of previously used URLs.</ph><note type="note"
            id="different-repository-note">If the URL belongs to a different repository than the
            working copy, the <uicontrol>Ignore ancestry / Disable merge tracking</uicontrol> option
            (in the <xref href="merge-options.dita#merge-options"><uicontrol>Merge
                Options</uicontrol> wizard page</xref>) will be selected automatically (and you
            cannot change this). This is because the <xref
              href="final-words-merge.dita#final-words-merge/merge-from-foreign-repositories"
              >Subversion client cannot track changes between different
            repositories</xref>.</note><note id="merge-source-peg-revision-note" type="tip"><ph
              id="merge-source-peg-revision">You can also specify a <xref
                href="using-peg-revisions.dita#using-peg-revisions"><term>peg revision</term></xref>
              at the end of the URL (for example, <codeph>URL@rev1234</codeph>).</ph> The peg
            revision does not affect the merge range you select. By default, the
              <codeph>HEAD</codeph> revision is assumed.</note></info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd><ph id="step6-ph">In the <uicontrol>Revisions to merge</uicontrol> section, choose
            between the <uicontrol>all revisions</uicontrol> and <uicontrol>specific
              revision(s)</uicontrol> options.</ph></cmd>
        <info>
          <p>
            <ul id="ul_jcc_h5r_4r">
              <li><uicontrol>all revisions</uicontrol> - The operation will include <i>all eligible
                  revisions</i> that were not yet merged.</li>
              <li><uicontrol>specific revision(s)</uicontrol> - You can specify one or more
                individual revisions and/or revision ranges. Also, you can mix <i>forward</i> ranges
                (for example, <codeph>1-5</codeph>), <i>backward</i> ranges (for example,
                  <codeph>20-15</codeph>), and subtract specific revisions from a range (for
                example, <codeph>1-5, -3</codeph>).</li>
            </ul>
          </p>
          <p>
            <note>If using the Subversion command-line client, a revision range of the form
                <codeph>1-5</codeph> means all changes starting from revision 2 up to revision 5
              (the changes necessary to reach revision 5, committed after revision 1). Unlike the
              Subversion command-line client, in <ph keyref="svnProduct"/> the revision ranges are
              inclusive, meaning that it will process all revisions, starting with revision 1, up to
              and including revision 5. </note>
            <note type="attention">The <codeph>HEAD</codeph> revision is the only non-numerical
              revision allowed, and it can only be used when specifying revision ranges as one of
              the ends of the range (for example, <codeph>10-HEAD</codeph>). Be careful when using
              it, as it might not refer to the desired revision, if it has recently been committed
              by another user.</note>
            <note type="tip" id="tip_negative_revisions">If you want to perform a <i>reverse
                merge</i> and roll-back your working copy changes that have already been committed
              to the repository, use the <i>negative revisions</i> notation (for example,
                <codeph>-7</codeph>) or <i>backward revision ranges</i> (for example,
                <codeph>20-10</codeph>).</note>
          </p>
        </info>
        <substeps id="substeps_inx_z5r_4r">
          <substep>
            <cmd>If you press the <uicontrol>History</uicontrol> button, <xref
                href="history-dialog.dita#history-dialog" format="dita">the
                  <uicontrol>History</uicontrol> dialog box</xref> is displayed, which allows you to
              select one or more revisions to be merged.</cmd>
          </substep>
        </substeps>
      </step>
      <step id="next-button">
        <cmd><ph id="config-options-ph">Optionally, if you want to <xref
              href="merge-options.dita#merge-options">configure the options</xref> for your merge,
            press the <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol> button.</ph></cmd>
        <stepresult><ph id="options-set-result">The <xref href="merge-options.dita#merge-options"
                ><uicontrol>Merge Options</uicontrol> wizard page</xref> is displayed that allows
            you to configure options for the operation.</ph><note type="warning">If the
              <uicontrol>Ignore ancestry / Disable merge tracking</uicontrol> option is selected and
            you chose <uicontrol>all revisions</uicontrol> in the <uicontrol>Revisions to
              merge</uicontrol> section, revisions that were previously merged will also be
            included, which may result in conflicts.</note></stepresult>
      </step>
      <step id="perform-merge">
        <cmd>Press the <uicontrol>Merge</uicontrol> button.</cmd>
        <stepresult>The merge operation is performed.</stepresult>
      </step>
    </steps>
    <result id="merge-result">
      <p>If the merge is completed successfully, all the changes corresponding to the selected
        revisions should be merged in your working copy.</p>
    </result>
    <postreq id="merge-postreq">
      <p>It is recommended to look at the results of the merge, in the working copy, to review the
        changes and see if it meets your expectations. Since merging can sometimes be complicated,
          <xref href="resolve-merge-conflicts.dita#resolve-merge-conflicts" format="dita">you may
          need to resolve conflicts</xref> after making major changes.<note type="note"><ph
            id="commit-merge-result">The merge result is only in your local working copy and needs
            to be committed to the repository for it to be available to others.</ph></note></p>
    </postreq>
  </taskbody>
</task>
