<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="merge-branches">
    <title>Merging</title>
    <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>SVN Branches/Tags<indexterm>merging</indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
    <body>
        <p>At some stage during the development process, you will want to merge the changes made on
      a branch back into the trunk, or vice-versa. The merge is accomplished by comparing two points
      (branches or revisions) in the repository and applying the obtained differences to your
      working copy. This process is closely related to the <term>diff</term> concept.</p>
    <note type="remember">It is a good idea to perform a merge into an unmodified working copy. If
      you have made changes to your working copy, commit them first. If the merge does not go as you
      expect, you may want to revert the changes and revert cannot recover your uncommitted
      modifications.</note>
    <note>The above recommendation becomes mandatory when <xref href="#merge-branches" format="dita"
          ><term>reintegrating a branch</term></xref>.</note>
        <p>The <uicontrol>Merge</uicontrol> action can be found in the <uicontrol>Tools</uicontrol>
      menu of Syncro SVN Client. The item selected when you issued the command will be the one
      receiving the generated changes. If there is no item selected, the merge operation will be
      performed on the entire working copy.</p>
        <p>There are four common types of merging, which are handled in different ways:</p>
        <ul>
            <li><uicontrol>Merge revisions</uicontrol> - port changes from one branch to another.
        Note that the <term>trunk</term> can also be considered a branch, in this context;</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Synchronize a branch</uicontrol> - fetch all the changes made on a parent
        branch (or the <term>trunk</term>) to a child branch;</li>
            <li><uicontrol>Reintegrate a branch</uicontrol> - merge back a branch to its parent
        branch (which can also be the <term>trunk</term>);</li>
            <li><uicontrol>Merge two different trees</uicontrol> - integrate the changes done on a
        branch to a different branch.</li>
        </ul>
    <p>
      <note type="remember">A <term>branch</term> is a line of development that exists independently
        of another line, yet still shares a common history if you look far enough back in time. A
          <term>branch</term> always begins life as <i>a copy of something</i> (i.e. trunk, another
        branch, or tag), and moves on from there, generating its own history.</note>
    </p>
    </body>
</topic>