<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="merge-files-change-tracking">
  <title>Merge Files with Change Tracking Highlights</title>
  <body>
    <note conkeyref="reusables-scripting/note-scripting-license" id="note_zmx_dgk_54b"/>
    <p id="p_anx_dgk_54b">The <uicontrol>Merge Files with Change Tracking Highlights</uicontrol>
      script (<codeph>mergeFilesTrackChanges.sh</codeph>, found in the <filepath>scripts</filepath>
      subfolder inside <b>Oxygen's</b> installation directory) can be used to merge 2 XML files
      (based on a 2-way comparison). The <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode comparison results are
      saved as documents with highlighted tracked changes that can later be reviewed and accepted or
        rejected.<note id="note_bcw_t2f_xyb" type="notice"> This script is intended to be used for
        merging XML documents (<ph keyref="product"/> creates change tracking markers only for XML
        file types. Using this script for document types other than XML, or for documents that are
        not XML well-formed, causes document parsing errors and the merge operation
      fails.</note></p>
    <section id="section_gbd_tzb_vmb">
      <title>Arguments for the Merge Files with Change Tracking Highlights Script</title>
      <p id="p_tnx_dgk_54b">
        <codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_unx_dgk_54b">sh mergeFilesTrackChanges.sh pathOfBaseFile pathOfFileToMergeWith [[pathOfOutFile] [-nb noBackupOfBaseFile]] [-help | --help | -h | --h]</codeblock>
      </p>
      <p id="p_vnx_dgk_54b">
        <dl id="dl_wnx_dgk_54b">
          <dlentry id="dlentry_xnx_dgk_54b">
            <dt>pathOfBaseFile</dt>
            <dd>Mandatory argument that specifies the path of the base file (it can also be provided
              as a URL).</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_l2b_gpl_54b">
            <dt>pathOfFileToMergeWith</dt>
            <dd>Mandatory argument that specifies the file to merge with (it can also be provided as
              a URL).</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_x2j_5ck_dpb">
            <dt>pathOfOutFile</dt>
            <dd>Optional argument that specifies the path of the file where the merge operation
              results are saved to (it can also be provided as a URL). If present, it must appear
              immediately after the first two mandatory arguments. If absent, the merge results are
              saved to the base file, by overwriting it. You cannot choose the same file specified
              as the file to merge with as the output file (the merge process is aborted in this
              case). Also, if the output is a remote resource, its entire parent directory structure
              must already exist. Otherwise, an I/O exception is thrown and the merge results cannot
              be saved.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_zcl_bgk_dpb">
            <dt>-nb noBackupOfBaseFile</dt>
            <dd>
              <p id="p_chc_bhf_xyb">Set to <b>true</b> if you do not want a backup copy of the base
                file on the hard disk. There are 2 situations when a backup of the base file is
                performed automatically and the backup operation must succeed to proceed with the
                merge. Otherwise, the merge process is aborted if the output file is not specified
                (i.e. the <codeph>pathOfOutFile</codeph> argument is not present) or the specified
                output file is the base file itself.</p>
              <p id="p_vcs_1hf_xyb">The backup copy will have the same parent directory as the base
                directory and its name will be the name of the base file suffixed by ".OXY.BAK". The
                default value is <b>false</b>, which means that for either of the 2 previously
                mentioned situations, a backup copy of the base file will be kept on the hard
                  disk.<note id="note_szp_fhf_xyb">The backup copy can be deleted only if the base
                  file and, implicitly, its backup copy are local resources (not remote).</note></p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_c4x_dgk_54b">
            <dt>-help | --help | -h | --h</dt>
            <dd>Displays help text.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
      <note id="note_p2r_k4l_54b" othertype="">For boolean arguments, it is not necessary to provide
        the "true" value. Their presence in the argument list is equivalent to setting their value
        to "true" (and their absence from the argument list is equivalent to setting their value to
        "false"). However, constructs of the form <codeph>bool_option true|false</codeph> are
        accepted and interpreted accordingly</note>
    </section>
    <section id="section_pnz_pnl_54b">
      <title>Examples of Compare Files Script</title>
      <p id="p_idr_zxn_wqb">
        <dl id="dl_whv_zxn_wqb">
          <dlentry id="dlentry_xhv_zxn_wqb">
            <dt>Example 1: Compare Files and View Results in XML Format</dt>
            <dd>
              <p id="p_fwp_dyn_wqb">The following command results in merging <codeph>file1</codeph>
                and <codeph>file2</codeph> into <codeph>outfile</codeph> with changes
                highlighted:<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne">sh scripts/mergeFilesTrackChanges.sh file1 file2 outfile</codeblock></p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_vtg_3yn_wqb">
            <dt>Example 2: Compare Files with Line by Line Algorithm</dt>
            <dd>
              <p id="p_h42_lyn_wqb">The following command results in merging <codeph>file1</codeph>
                and <codeph>file2</codeph> by overwriting <codeph>file1</codeph>. However, the
                  <codeph>file1</codeph> is backed up
                first:<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne">sh scripts/mergeFilesTrackChanges.sh file1 file2</codeblock></p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_rfg_nyn_wqb">
            <dt>Example 3: Compare Files and Generate Comparison Report</dt>
            <dd>
              <p id="p_hmz_bzn_wqb">The following command results in merging <codeph>file1</codeph>
                and <codeph>file2</codeph> by overwriting <codeph>file1</codeph>. Although
                  <codeph>file1</codeph> is initially backed up, the backup is eventually
                removed:<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne">sh scripts/mergeFilesTrackChanges.sh file1 file2 -nb</codeblock></p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
