<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="migrate_old_topic_format">
  <title>Convert Version 19 (and Older) Publishing Templates to Version 20</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
          >WebHelp Responsive <indexterm>Converting old templates to version
          20</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm product="webhelp-responsive ope">Publishing Template <indexterm>Converting old
            templates to version 20</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_pqn_cgk_54b">With the introduction of the Publishing Template concept in <ph keyref="product"/> version
      20.0, the old WebHelp output template formats (version 19.1 and older) are no longer
      supported. However, they can be easily converted to the new format (version 20.0 or 20.1) by
      following this procedure:<ol id="ol_qqn_cgk_54b">
        <li id="li_rqn_cgk_54b">Set <ph keyref="product"/> to point to the DITA-OT distribution that contains your old template:<ol id="ol_sqn_cgk_54b">
            <li id="li_tqn_cgk_54b">Go to <menucascade>
                <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>DITA</uicontrol>
              </menucascade>.</li>
            <li id="li_uqn_cgk_54b">Select <uicontrol>Custom</uicontrol> in the <uicontrol>DITA Open Toolkit</uicontrol>
              section and specify the DITA-OT directory that contains your old template.</li>
          </ol></li>
        <li id="li_vqn_cgk_54b">Edit a <uicontrol>WebHelp Responsive</uicontrol> transformation scenario.</li>
        <li id="li_wqn_cgk_54b">Select your old custom template in the <uicontrol>Templates</uicontrol> tab.</li>
        <li id="li_xqn_cgk_54b">Click on the <uicontrol>Save Template as</uicontrol> button, complete the required
          fields, and save the template.</li>
        <li id="li_yqn_cgk_54b">Reset the option set in step 1 to its previous value.</li>
        <li id="li_zqn_cgk_54b">Edit the <uicontrol>WebHelp Responsive</uicontrol> transformation scenario again.</li>
        <li id="li_arn_cgk_54b">This time, use the <uicontrol>Choose custom template</uicontrol> button to select your
          converted template.</li>
        <li id="li_brn_cgk_54b">Save the scenario and use it to generate the WebHelp Responsive output.</li>
      </ol></p>
    <p id="p_crn_cgk_54b"><b>Result:</b> The converted template is now in a Publishing Template format for version
      20.</p>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="convert-pt-to-ver24-1.dita"/>
    <link href="convert-pt-to-ver24.dita"/>
    <link href="convert-pt-to-ver23.dita"/>
    <link href="convert-pt-to-ver22.dita"/>
      <link href="convert-pt-to-ver21.dita"/>
  </related-links>
</topic>
