<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="move-rename-resource-rng-hierarchy-view">
  <title>Moving/Renaming RNG Resources</title>
  <shortdesc id="short-desc-move-rename">You are able to move and rename a resource presented in the
      <uicontrol>Resource/Hierarchy Dependencies</uicontrol> view, using the <uicontrol>Rename
      resource</uicontrol> and <uicontrol>Move resource</uicontrol> refactoring actions from the
    contextual menu.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p id="rename-action">When you select the <uicontrol>Rename</uicontrol> action in the contextual
      menu of the <uicontrol>Resource/Hierarchy Dependencies</uicontrol> view, the <uicontrol>Rename
        resource</uicontrol> dialog is displayed. The following fields are available:<ul>
        <li><uicontrol>New name</uicontrol> - presents the current name of the edited resource and
          allows you to modify it;</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Update references</uicontrol> - enable this option to update the references
          to the resource you are renaming.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p id="move-action">When you select the <uicontrol>Move</uicontrol> action from the contextual
      menu of the <uicontrol>Resource/Hierarchy Dependencies</uicontrol> view, the <uicontrol>Move
        resource</uicontrol> dialog is displayed. The following fields are available:<ul>
        <li><uicontrol>Destination</uicontrol> - presents the path to the current location of the
          resource you want to move and gives you the option to introduce a new location;</li>
        <li><uicontrol>New name</uicontrol> - presents the current name of the moved resource and
          gives you the option to change it;</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Update references of the moved resource(s)</uicontrol> - enable this option
          to update the references to the resource you are moving, in accordance with the new
          location and name.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p id="preview-dialog">In case the <uicontrol>Update references of the moved
        resource(s)</uicontrol> option is enabled, a <uicontrol>Preview</uicontrol> option which
      opens the <uicontrol>Preview</uicontrol> dialog is available for both actions. The
        <uicontrol>Preview</uicontrol> dialog presents a list with the resources that are
      updated.</p>
    <note id="resource-resolved-through-catalog">Updating the references of a resource that is
      resolved through a catalog is not supported. Also, the update references operation is not
      supported in case the path to the renamed or moved resource contains entities.</note>
  </body>
</topic>
