<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="move-rename-resource">
  <title>Moving and Renaming Resources</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>DITA<indexterm>Maps<indexterm>Move resources</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>DITA<indexterm>Maps<indexterm>Rename
          resources</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_tml_dgk_54b">You can move or rename resources referenced in your DITA project on disk
      directly from <ph keyref="product"/> and you have the option of updating all the references to
      the moved or renamed resources. If the resources are referenced in the DITA map, you can do
      this from the <xref href="dita-maps-manager.dita#dita-maps-manager"><uicontrol>DITA Maps
          Manager</uicontrol> view</xref>. You can also move and rename resources (DITA topics,
      maps, or other resources such as folders, images, HTML files, audio, video, text files,
      Markdown documents) from the <xref href="using-the-project-view.dita#using-the-project-view"
          ><uicontrol product="author editor">Project</uicontrol><uicontrol
          product="authorEclipse editorEclipse">Project Explorer</uicontrol> view</xref>. If you
      have <xref href="dita-main-files.dita">enabled Main Files support</xref>, you will also have
      the option to update all the references to the moved or renamed resource.</p>
    <section id="moving_or_renaming_dita_resources_topics_or_maps">
      <title>Moving or Renaming DITA Resources (Topics or Maps)</title>
      <p id="p_uml_dgk_54b">To move or rename resources (such as topics, maps, or other referenced
        non-DITA resources) referenced directly in the DITA map, use one of the following actions
        available in the <uicontrol>Refactoring</uicontrol> submenu of the contextual menu when
        invoked on the resource in the <xref href="dita-maps-manager.dita#dita-maps-manager"
            ><uicontrol>DITA Maps Manager</uicontrol> view</xref>:<dl id="dl_vml_dgk_54b">
          <dlentry id="dlentry_wml_dgk_54b">
            <dt><menucascade>
                <uicontrol>Refactoring</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>Move resource</uicontrol>
              </menucascade></dt>
            <dd>
              <p id="p_xml_dgk_54b">This action allows you to change the location of a resource
                linked in the edited <term>DITA map</term> using the <uicontrol>Move
                  resource</uicontrol> dialog box. This dialog box contains the following
                  options:<ul id="ul_yml_dgk_54b">
                  <li id="li_zml_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>Destination</uicontrol> - Specifies the target
                    location of the edited resource.</li>
                  <li id="li_anl_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>File name</uicontrol> - Allows you to change
                    the name of the edited resource.</li>
                  <li id="li_cnl_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>Preview</uicontrol> - Select this button to
                    display a preview of the changes <ph keyref="product"/> is about to make.</li>
                  <li id="li_dnl_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>Move</uicontrol> - Moves the edited resource in
                    the target location on disk.</li>
                  <li id="li_enl_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>Cancel</uicontrol> - Cancels the
                      <uicontrol>Move resource</uicontrol> operation. No changes are applied.</li>
                </ul></p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_fnl_dgk_54b">
            <dt><menucascade>
                <uicontrol>Refactoring</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>Rename resource</uicontrol>
              </menucascade></dt>
            <dd>
              <p id="p_gnl_dgk_54b">This action allows you to change the name of a resource linked
                in the edited <xref keyref="glossentry_ditamap"><term>DITA map</term></xref> using
                the <uicontrol>Rename resource</uicontrol> dialog box. This dialog box contains the
                following options:<ul id="ul_hnl_dgk_54b">
                  <li id="li_inl_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>New name</uicontrol> - Presents the current
                    name and allows you to change it.</li>
                  <li id="li_knl_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>Preview</uicontrol> - Select this button to
                    display a preview of the changes <ph keyref="product"/> is about to make.</li>
                  <li id="li_lnl_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>Rename</uicontrol> - Executes the
                      <uicontrol>Rename resource</uicontrol> operation.</li>
                  <li id="li_mnl_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>Cancel</uicontrol> - Cancels the
                      <uicontrol>Rename resource</uicontrol> operation. No changes are applied.</li>
                </ul></p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl></p>
    </section>
    <note id="note_nnl_dgk_54b">If a <xref keyref="glossentry_root-map"><term>root DITA map</term></xref> is not defined,
      the move and rename actions are executed in the context of the current <term>DITA
      map</term>.</note>
    <section id="moving_or_renaming_nondita_resources_folders_imag">
      <title>Moving or Renaming Resources and Updating the References to Them Using the Project
        View</title>
      <p id="p_onl_dgk_54b">To move or rename DITA (topics, maps) or non-DITA resources (such as
        folders, images, HTML files, audio, video, text files, Markdown documents), you can simply
        follow the procedures described in <xref
          href="move-rename-resources-project-view.dita#move-rename-resources-project-view"/>.
        However, this approach will not give you the option to update the references to the moved or
        renamed resources.</p>
      <p id="p_pnl_dgk_54b">To perform move or rename operation on resources while also updating all
        the references to them, use the following sets of procedures:<ol id="ol_qnl_dgk_54b">
          <li id="li_rnl_dgk_54b">Enable <term>Main Files</term> support and add your <xref
              keyref="glossentry_root-map"><term>root DITA map</term></xref> to the <term>Main
              Files</term> folder by following the procedure found here: <xref
              href="dita-main-files.dita#dita-main-files/how_to_enable_main_files_support_in_dita"
            />.</li>
          <li id="li_snl_dgk_54b">Move or rename resources and update the references to them by
            following the procedure found here: <xref
              href="dita-main-files.dita#dita-main-files/moving_or_renaming_nondita_resources"
            />.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="dita-main-files.dita#dita-main-files"/>
      <link href="find-unreferenced-resources.dita#find-unreferenced-resources"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
