<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="no-visual-diff">
  <title>No Visual Differences Detected</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>No visual differences between the two files were detected</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Differences cannot be displayed</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>When using the file comparison tool in <ph keyref="webappProduct"/>, there are cases where
      there are actually some sort of differences between the text versions of the files, but you
      see one of the following messages: <uicontrol>No visual differences between the two files were
        detected</uicontrol> or <uicontrol>There are differences that cannot be displayed in the
        visual comparison mode</uicontrol>. This means that if the two files were compared in a text
      mode version of the file comparison tool, a difference would be detected, but since Web
      Author's version is a visual file comparison tool, when the files are rendered, there are no
      visible differences. In these instances, the differences are insignificant for the visual
      rendering because the differences are somewhere in the XML source code and do not affect how
      the document looks in the visual editor or in the published output.</p>
    <p>There are several possible scenarios:<ul id="ul_rxh_gdv_jjb">
        <li><b>Whitespace Differences</b> - There could be differences in the formatting or
          indentation of insignificant whitespaces that exist in the XML syntax for readability
          purposes in a text mode, but these whitespaces are not rendered in a visual mode or in the
          output. For example, blank lines in the XML syntax would be considered insignificant
          whitespaces, so if one file has more blank lines than the other, no visual differences
          will be detected even though there are differences in the number of lines in the text
          version of the documents. Another example would be a difference in XML tag
          indentation.</li>
        <li><b>Encoding Differences</b> - If the two files have a different encoding, there will be
          no visual differences detected unless the two encodings render any characters
          differently.</li>
        <li><b>Attribute Order Differences</b> - If the two files have any differences in the order
          that attributes appear in any particular element (and the attributes and elements are the
          same), the visual mode will not detect any differences.</li>
        <li><b>DOCTYPE Declaration Differences</b> - If the two files have a difference in their
            <i>DOCTYPE</i> declaration, that particular difference is not detected in the visual
          comparison.</li>
        <li><b>XML Comment Differences</b> - If an XML comment is added inside an element that is
          not rendered in the visual editor or the output, this type of difference is not detected
          in the visual comparison. For example, an XML comment added in between row elements within
          a table's body element.</li>
      </ul></p>
  </body>
</topic>
