<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="notifications-localization">
  <title>How to Localize Email Notifications of Feedback System</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
          >WebHelp Responsive with Feedback<indexterm>Localizing email
          notifications</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm product="webhelp-responsive">Localizing email notifications for feedback
          system</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>The feedback-enabled WebHelp Responsive systems use emails to notify users when comments are
      posted. These emails are based on templates stored in the WebHelp directory. The default
      messages are in English, French, German, and Japanese. These messages are copied into the
      WebHelp system deployment directory during the execution of the corresponding transformation
      scenario.</p>
    <section id="using_a_script_outside_of_oxygen_xml_editorauthor">
      <title>Using a Publishing Template</title>
      <p>To change the language of the emails for DITA Map WebHelp Responsive with Feedback output
        using an <xref keyref="wh-publishing-template"><term>Oxygen Publishing
          Template</term></xref>, follow this procedure:<ol>
          <li>Create the following directory:<p><filepath><term keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"
                />\plugins\com.oxygenxml.webhelp.responsive\oxygen-webhelp\resources\php\templates\nl</filepath></p></li>
          <li>Copy all English template files from <filepath><term keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"
              />\plugins\com.oxygenxml.webhelp.responsive\oxygen-webhelp\resources\php\templates\en</filepath>
            and paste them into the directory you just created.</li>
          <li>Edit the HTML files from the <filepath><term keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"
              />\plugins\com.oxygenxml.webhelp.responsive\oxygen-webhelp\resources\php\templates\nl</filepath>
            directory and translate the content into your language.</li>
          <li>Open the <xref href="whr_publishing_template_contents.dita#template_descritpor_file"
              >template descriptor file</xref> associated with your publishing template and add the
              <codeph>default.language</codeph> parameter in the <term>parameters</term> section
            with its value set to the appropriate language code (for example, <codeph>nl</codeph>
            for Dutch).<note>If you set the parameter to a value such as
                <codeph>LanguageCode-CountryCode</codeph> (for example, <codeph>en-us</codeph>), the
              transformation scenario will only use the language
            code.</note><codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;publishing-template>
    ...
    &lt;webhelp>
        ...                
        &lt;parameters>
            &lt;parameter name="default.language" value="nl"/>
        &lt;/parameters>
    &lt;/webhelp></codeblock></li>
          <li>Open the <term>DITA Map WebHelp Responsive</term> transformation scenario.</li>
          <li>Click the <uicontrol>Choose Custom Publishing Template</uicontrol> link and select
            your template.</li>
          <li>Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> to save the changes to the transformation
            scenario.</li>
          <li>Run the transformation scenario.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="using_oxygen_xml_editorauthor">
      <title>Using a Transformation Scenario in Oxygen XML Editor/Author</title>
      <p>To change the language of the emails for DITA Map WebHelp Responsive with Feedback output
        using a transformation scenario from within <b>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</b>, follow this procedure:<ol>
          <li>Create the following directory:<p><filepath><term keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"
                />\plugins\com.oxygenxml.webhelp.responsive\oxygen-webhelp\resources\php\templates\nl</filepath></p></li>
          <li>Copy all English template files from <filepath><term keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"
              />\plugins\com.oxygenxml.webhelp.responsive\oxygen-webhelp\resources\php\templates\en</filepath>
            and paste them into the directory you just created.</li>
          <li>Edit the HTML files from the <filepath><term keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"
              />\plugins\com.oxygenxml.webhelp.responsive\oxygen-webhelp\resources\php\templates\nl</filepath>
            directory and translate the content into your language.</li>
          <li>Edit a <uicontrol>DITA Map WebHelp Responsive</uicontrol> transformation scenario and
            open the <uicontrol>Parameters</uicontrol> tab.</li>
          <li>In the <uicontrol>Parameters</uicontrol> tab, look for the
              <codeph>default.language</codeph> parameter and set its value to the appropriate
            language code (for example, <codeph>nl</codeph> for Dutch).<note>If you set the
              parameter to a value such as <codeph>LanguageCode-CountryCode</codeph> (for example,
                <codeph>en-us</codeph>), the transformation scenario will only use the language
              code.</note></li>
          <li>Run the transformation scenario.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="whr-feedback-system.dita#whr-feedback-system"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
