<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="nvdl-schema-diagram-actions">
  <title>Actions Available in the Diagram Editor</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>NVDL schemas<indexterm>Diagram Editor<indexterm>Contextual menu
              actions</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_j2f_cgk_54b">The contextual menu offers the following actions: </p>
    <p id="p_k2f_cgk_54b">
      <dl id="dl_l2f_cgk_54b">
        <dlentry id="dlentry_m2f_cgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Show only the selected component</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Depending on its state (selected/not selected), either the selected component or all
            the diagram components are shown.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_n2f_cgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Show Annotations</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Depending on its state (selected/not selected), the documentation nodes are shown or
            hidden.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_o2f_cgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Auto expand to references</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>This option controls how the schema diagram is automatically expanded. For instance,
            if you select it and then edit a top-level element or you trigger a diagram refresh, the
            diagram will be expanded until it reaches the referenced components. If this option is
            left unchecked, only the first level of the diagram is expanded, showing the top-level
            elements. For large schemas, the editor disables this option automatically.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_p2f_cgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Collapse Children</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Collapses the children of the selected view.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_q2f_cgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Expand Children</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Expands the children of the selected view.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_r2f_cgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Print Selection</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Prints the selected view.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_s2f_cgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Save as Image</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Saves the current selection as image, in JPEG, BMP, SVG or PNG format.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_t2f_cgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Refresh</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Refreshes the schema diagram according to the changes in your code (changes in your
            imported documents or those that are not reflected automatically in the compiled
            schema).</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
    <p id="p_u2f_cgk_54b">If the schema is not valid, you see only an error message in the <xref
        href="nvdl-logical-model.dita#nvdl-logical-model"><uicontrol>Logical Model
        View</uicontrol></xref> instead of the diagram.</p>
  </body>
</topic>