<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ofb-site-notifications">
  <title>Automatic User Notifications</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Notifications</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Site owner notifications</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Site admin notifications</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Site management team notifications</indexterm>
      </keywords>
      <keywords>
        <keyword outputclass="label">Email Notifications</keyword>
        <keyword outputclass="label">Site Configuration</keyword>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_uhx_dgk_54b">Any type of user can <xref
        href="ofb-profile-management.dita#ofb-profile-management/section_f5w_cjs_s4b">configure the
        types of email notifications</xref> they receive when other users reply to their comment or
      add a comment in a thread where they have commented. To access the user notification options,
      click the account drop-down menu at the top-right corner of the interface, select
        <uicontrol>Profile</uicontrol>, and go to the <uicontrol>Notifications</uicontrol> tab.</p>
    <p id="p_vhx_dgk_54b">In addition, certain notifications are automatically sent when certain
      events are triggered.<note id="note_bsv_25d_qrb">Notifications that are sent to users with a
        role of <b>site</b>
        <i>Owner</i>, <i>Admin</i>, or <i>Moderator</i> are also sent to users with a role of
          <b>organization</b>
        <i>Owner</i>, <i>Admin</i>, or <i>Moderator</i>.</note></p>
    <p id="p_ezj_wtd_qrb">Events that trigger automatic notifications include:<ul
        id="ul_v4p_54l_gjb">
        <li id="li_whx_dgk_54b"><b>User Role is Changed</b> - All users will receive an email
          notification if their user role is changed by an <i>Owner</i> or <i>Admin</i>.</li>
        <li id="li_xhx_dgk_54b"><b>User is Added</b> - All users will receive an email notification
          if they have been added in a site configuration as an <i>Admin</i> or
          <i>Moderator</i>.</li>
        <li id="li_int_b1y_qwb"><b>User Registers a Page Rating</b> - Site admins receive a daily
          statistics email that includes the number of messages that were registered for positive or
          negative ratings within the past day. The number of messages is shown as a link that can
          be used to navigate to a page that displays all the ratings information for the particular
          documentation page. The messages can also be viewed from the statistics table in the <xref
            href="ofb-page-ratings.dita"><uicontrol>Page Ratings</uicontrol> statistics
          page</xref>.</li>
        <li id="li_yhx_dgk_54b" product="feedback"><b>Subscription Will Expire</b> - If the
          organization's paid subscription is about to expire (within 14 days or 24 hours) and the
          automatic renewal option is disabled, the user assigned as the organization
            <i>Owner</i><ph> or <i>Billing Manager</i></ph> will receive a notification reminding
          them to renew the subscription.</li>
        <li id="li_zhx_dgk_54b" product="feedback"><b>Subscription Has Expired</b> - If the
          organization's paid subscription expired 14 days prior, the user assigned as the
          organization <i>Owner</i><ph> or <i>Billing Manager</i></ph> will receive a notification
          reminding them to re-subscribe. The <i>Owner</i> is only able to access the <xref
            href="ofb-organization-profile-page.dita">Organization Profile</xref>, <xref
            href="ofb-subscription.dita">Subscription</xref>, and <xref
            href="ofb-technical-support-page.dita">Technical Support</xref> pages. If the
          subscription is not renewed within 90 day of its expiration date, the organization and all
          of its data will be deleted.</li>
        <li product="feedback" id="li_hxd_5nz_tbc"><b>Organization Scheduled for Deletion</b> - If
          the organization's paid subscription expires, the organization and all of its data will be
          deleted if the subscription is not renewed within 90 days its expiration date.  The user
          assigned as the organization <i>Owner</i><ph> or <i>Billing Manager</i></ph> will receive
          a notification 30 days prior to the deletion date (and another one seven days prior)
          reminding them that the organization is scheduled for deletion if the subscription is not
          renewed.</li>
        <li product="feedback" id="li_ixd_5nz_tbc"><b>Subscription Has Expired</b> - If the
          organization's paid subscription expired 14 days prior, the user assigned as the
          organization <i>Owner</i><ph> or <i>Billing Manager</i></ph> will receive a notification
          reminding them to re-subscribe.</li>
        <li id="li_a3x_dgk_54b" product="feedback"><b>Trial Will Expire</b> - If the organization's
          trial subscription is about to expire (within 7 days or 24 hours), the user assigned as
          the organization <i>Owner</i><ph> or <i>Billing Manager</i></ph> will receive a
          notification advising them to subscribe to a paid subscription plan.</li>
        <li id="li_b3x_dgk_54b" product="feedback"><b>Trial Has Expired</b> - If the organization's
          trial subscription expired 7 days prior, the user assigned as the organization
            <i>Owner</i><ph> or <i>Billing Manager</i></ph> will receive a notification advising
          them to subscribe to a paid subscription plan.</li>
        <li id="li_c3x_dgk_54b" product="feedback"><b>Number of Page Views Allowed by the
            Subscription Plan Will Be Exceeded</b> - If the number of page views allowed by the
          organization's subscription plan is about to be exceeded for the current month, the user
          assigned as the organization <i>Owner</i><ph> or <i>Billing Manager</i></ph> will receive
          a notification advising them to upgrade their subscription plan. This notification is sent
          when 80% of the allowed page views has been reached and again when 100% has been
          reached.</li>
        <li id="li_d3x_dgk_54b" product="feedback"><b>Number of Page Views Allowed by the
            Subscription Plan Has Been Exceeded</b> - If the number of page views allowed by the
          organization's subscription plan has been exceeded for the current month, the user
          assigned as the organization <i>Owner</i><ph> or <i>Billing Manager</i></ph> will receive
          a notification that their subscription has been suspended for the remainder of the month
          and advising them to upgrade their subscription plan. This notification is sent when 5
          days have passed since exceeding the limit or when 120% of the allowed page views has been
          reached.</li>
        <li id="li_e3x_dgk_54b" product="feedback"><b>Organization Has Active Subscription but no
            Page Views Were Generated</b> - If the user assigned as the organization
            <i>Owner</i><ph> or <i>Billing Manager</i></ph> activates a subscription, but no page
          views have yet to be generated, they will receive an automatic notification via
          email.</li>
      </ul></p>
  </body>
</topic>
