<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ofb-advanced-search">
  <title>Advanced Search</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <keyword outputclass="label">WebHelp Output</keyword>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_fcj_34v_tyb">Along with simple searches, the <b>Oxygen Feedback</b> search engine also
      supports advanced query syntax that allows users to create more complex, flexible, and useful
      queries to make the search more precise. This topic describes the advanced search features
      that you can use searching in WebHelp output that is configured to use the <b>Oxygen
        Feedback</b> search engine.</p>
    <section id="section_j5z_m4v_tyb">
      <title>Phrase Search</title>
      <p id="p_ymc_44v_tyb">A query is divided into terms and operators, comprising two term
        categories: <b>Single Terms</b> and <b>Phrases</b>. A <term>Single Term</term> pertains to
        an individual word (i.e. "test" or "hello"). A <term>Phrase</term> denotes a cluster of
        words enclosed within double quotation marks (i.e. "hello dolly").</p>
      <p id="p_bnc_44v_tyb">When using a phrase search, the search will only return results where
        the exact phrase is found.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_yvn_v4v_tyb">
      <title>Field Search</title>
      <p id="p_qxq_w4v_tyb">During a search, you have the option to specify a particular field. To
        search within any given field, you can input the field name followed by a colon
          (<codeph>:</codeph>) and then the term you are trying to find.</p>
      <p id="p_sxq_w4v_tyb">For instance, if you are attempting to find a document titled "The Right
        Way", you can
        input:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini">title:"The Right Way"</codeblock></p>
      <p id="p_uxq_w4v_tyb">
        <note id="note_xkx_dpv_tyb" type="important">The field specification is applicable solely to
          the term it directly precedes. For instance, the query: <codeph>title:Do it right</codeph>
          will solely retrieve "Do" from the title field. Meanwhile, it will locate both "it" and
          "right" within the default field (in this case, the <b>text</b> field, which stores all
          the text from the document).</note>
      </p>
      <p id="p_d1d_lpv_tyb">The list of available fields:<ul id="ul_e1d_lpv_tyb">
          <li id="li_f1d_lpv_tyb"><b>title</b> - The title of the document.</li>
          <li id="li_g1d_lpv_tyb"><b>description</b> - The description of the document.</li>
          <li id="li_h1d_lpv_tyb"><b>text</b> - The raw text content of the document.</li>
          <li id="li_i1d_lpv_tyb"><b>keywords</b> - The keywords of the document.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_bn1_npv_tyb">
      <title>Wildcard Search</title>
      <p id="p_xly_ppv_tyb">The <b>Oxygen Feedback</b> search engine facilitates both single and
        multiple character wildcard searches within individual terms (these are not applicable
        within phrase queries).</p>
      <p id="p_yly_ppv_tyb">For a single character wildcard search, use the <codeph>?</codeph>
        symbol. For a multiple character wildcard search, use the <codeph>*</codeph> symbol.</p>
      <p id="p_amy_ppv_tyb">The single character wildcard search scans for terms that match with a
        single character substitution. For instance, to find "meet" or "meat," you can use the
        following query:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini">me?t</codeblock></p>
      <p id="p_cmy_ppv_tyb">Conversely, multiple character wildcard searches are designed to match 0
        or more characters. For instance, when searching for "test", "tests," or "tester," you can
        use the following query:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini">test*</codeblock></p>
      <p id="p_emy_ppv_tyb">It is also possible to integrate wildcard searches within the middle of
        a term. For instance:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini">te*t</codeblock></p>
      <p id="p_hmy_ppv_tyb">
        <note id="note_tf2_stv_tyb" type="important">You cannot initiate a search with the
            <codeph>*</codeph> or <codeph>?</codeph> symbol as the first character.</note>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_o25_qpv_tyb">
      <title>Regular Expression Search</title>
      <p id="p_ij4_rpv_tyb">You can use regular expression searches to match patterns enclosed
        within forward slashes ("/").</p>
      <p id="p_wts_1tv_tyb">For example, to locate documents that contain either "moat" or "boat,"
        you can use the following
        query:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini">/[mb]oat/</codeblock></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_qrp_wpv_tyb">
      <title>Proximity Search</title>
      <p id="p_bsh_xpv_tyb">The <b>Oxygen Feedback</b> search engine offers the capability to
        identify words that are situated within a defined distance of each other. To conduct a
        proximity search, add the tilde symbol (<b>~</b>) to the end of a phrase.</p>
      <p id="p_gtz_xsv_tyb">For instance, to search for the terms "dita" and "webhelp" within a
        maximum of 10 words of separation in a document, you can use the following
        query:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini">"dita webhelp"~10</codeblock></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_a5j_ypv_tyb">
      <title>Boosting</title>
      <p id="p_mwc_zpv_tyb">To emphasize a specific term's importance, use the <codeph>^</codeph>
        symbol followed by a boost factor (a numerical value) at the end of the term. A higher boost
        factor increases the term's significance.</p>
      <p id="p_nwc_zpv_tyb">This boosting approach allows you to control a document's relevance by
        amplifying the weight of its term. For instance, if you are searching for "dita webhelp" and
        wish to enhance the relevance of "dita", apply the <codeph>^</codeph> symbol with a boost
        factor after the term:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini">dita^4 webhelp</codeblock></p>
      <p id="p_pwc_zpv_tyb">This adjustment elevates the prominence of documents featuring the term
        "dita."</p>
      <p id="p_qwc_zpv_tyb"> Additionally, the boosting technique can be applied to <term>Phrase
          Terms</term>, as in this
        example:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini">"dita webhelp"^4 "feedback search"</codeblock></p>
      <p id="p_swc_zpv_tyb">The default boost factor is 1, and while it must be a positive value, it
        can also be less than 1 (e.g. 0.2).</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_k5b_1qv_tyb">
      <title>Boolean Operators</title>
      <p id="p_zwf_bqv_tyb">Boolean operators enable the combination of terms using logical
        operators. Feedback supports <b>AND</b>, <b>+</b>, <b>OR</b>, <b>NOT</b>, and <b>-</b> as
        Boolean operators.<note id="note_bf3_sqv_tyb" type="important">Boolean operators must be in
          ALL CAPS.</note></p>
      <p id="p_axf_bqv_tyb">The <b>OR</b> operator functions as the default conjunction operator. If
        no Boolean operator is present between two terms, the <b>OR</b> operator is assumed (the
          <codeph>||</codeph> symbol can also replace the term <b>OR</b>). The <b>OR</b> operator
        links two terms and identifies a matching document if either term is present. This is
        comparable to a set union.</p>
      <p id="p_bxf_bqv_tyb">For example, to search documents that contain either "dita webhelp" or
        simply "dita", use one of these
        queries:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini">"dita webhelp" dita
"dita webhelp" OR dita</codeblock></p>
      <p id="p_cky_qrv_tyb"><b><u>Operators:</u></b></p>
      <p id="p_azx_lrv_tyb">
        <dl id="dl_s1b_mrv_tyb">
          <dlentry id="dlentry_t1b_mrv_tyb">
            <dt>AND</dt>
            <dd>
              <p id="p_gxf_bqv_tyb">The <b>AND</b> operator locates documents where both terms
                appear anywhere within a single document. This equates to a set intersection. The
                  <codeph>&amp;&amp;</codeph> symbol can be used in place of the term
                <b>AND</b>.</p>
              <p id="p_hxf_bqv_tyb">For example, to find documents that contain "dita webhelp" and
                "feedback search," use the following
                query:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini">"dita webhelp" AND "feedback search"</codeblock></p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_xsg_yrv_tyb">
            <dt>+</dt>
            <dd>
              <p id="p_cy4_g4v_tyb">The <b>+</b> (or required) operator requires that the term after
                the <b>+</b> symbol exist somewhere in a the field of a single document.</p>
              <p id="p_dy4_g4v_tyb">For example, to search for documents that must contain "dita"
                and may contain "webhelp", use the following
                query:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini"> +dita webhelp</codeblock></p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_dfj_dsv_tyb">
            <dt>NOT</dt>
            <dd>
              <p id="p_zhf_g4v_tyb">The <b>NOT</b> operator excludes documents that contain the term
                after "NOT". This is equivalent to a difference using sets. The <codeph>!</codeph>
                symbol can be used in place of the word <b>NOT</b>. </p>
              <p id="p_a3f_g4v_tyb">To search for documents that contain "dita webhelp" but not
                "feedback search", use the following
                  query:<codeblock outputclass="language-dtd">"dita webhelp" NOT "feedback search"</codeblock><note
                  id="note_cjf_hm4_myb"> The <b>NOT</b> operator cannot be used with just one term.
                  For example, the following query will return no
                  results:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini">NOT "dita webhelp"</codeblock></note></p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_f4n_nsv_tyb">
            <dt>-</dt>
            <dd>
              <p id="p_cqw_f4v_tyb">The <b>-</b> (or prohibit) operator removes documents that
                contain the term following the <b>-</b> symbol.</p>
              <p id="p_dqw_f4v_tyb">For example, to find documents that feature "dita webhelp" while
                excluding "feedback search," use the following
                query:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini">"dita webhelp" -"feedback search"</codeblock></p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_x4k_cqv_tyb">
      <title>Field Grouping</title>
      <p id="p_t3c_dqv_tyb">You can use parentheses to group multiple clauses within a single field.
        For instance, to search for a title that includes both the term "dita" and the phrase
        "feedback search", you can use the following
        query:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini">title:(+dita +"feedback search")</codeblock></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_dpm_2qv_tyb">
      <title>Escaping Characters</title>
      <p id="p_xw2_fqv_tyb">The <b>Oxygen Feedback</b> search engine includes the capability to
        escape special characters that are integral to the query syntax. The present set of special
        characters include: <codeph>&amp;&amp; || ! ( ) { } [ ] ^ " ~ * ? : \</codeph></p>
      <p id="p_zw2_fqv_tyb">To escape these characters, use the backslash (<b>\</b>) before the
        character itself. For instance, if you want to search for the expression (1+1):2, you can
        use the following query:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini">\(1\+1\)\:2</codeblock></p>
    </section>
    <section id="resources">
      <title>Resources</title>
      <p id="p_agf_xh1_hzb">Video - <xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/demo/content_labeling_and_advanced_search_queries.html"
          format="html" scope="external"><b>Content Labeling and Advanced Search Queries in Oxygen
            WebHelp Responsive Output Powered by Oxygen Feedback</b></xref></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
