<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ofb-cannot-load-oxygen-feedback-comments-application">
    <title>Cannot Load <ph>Oxygen Feedback</ph> Comments Application</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <keyword outputclass="label">Site Configuration</keyword>
        <keyword outputclass="label">Admin Interface</keyword>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
    <body>
      <p><b>Problem:</b> I have just embedded the <ph>Oxygen Feedback</ph> comments component into my website but the comments component is missing or an error message is displayed in its place.</p><p> 
      <ph>Oxygen Feedback</ph> allows you to enhance the troubleshooting process for commenting
      component installation on your website. This can be achieved for each version of your site
      configurations by enabling the <uicontrol>Display in-place error messages for comment
        component</uicontrol> option in the corresponding Version Settings page of the
      administration interface. When enabled, this feature displays informative error messages
      directly in the location where the comments component should appear if any issues arise during
      its instantiation.<note id="note_zzv_pnj_d1c"> It is recommended to enable this feature during
        the initial setup or when making changes to your site configuration. This can help quickly
        identify and resolve any integration issues.</note></p>
    <section id="invalid_base_url">
      <title>Invalid Base URL</title>
      <p><b>Error message:</b>
        <i>Cannot load the comments application at this location. The page URL does not match the
          configured base URLs.</i></p>
      <p>
        <note id="note_scp_tpj_d1c" importance="high">The Comments Component will only be displayed
          on the pages within the hierarchy of the base URL configured for the current version of
          the site configuration.</note>
      </p>
      <p><b>How to fix:</b><ol id="ol_sky_4qj_d1c">
          <li><b>Identify the URL of the current webpage:</b>
            <ul id="ul_wwb_vqj_d1c">
              <li>Look at the top of your web browser, where you typically type in a website name.
                This area is called the address bar.</li>
              <li>The text you see here is the URL of the current webpage.</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li>
            <p><b>Understand the parts of the URL:</b></p>
            <ul id="ul_wg2_xdk_d1c">
              <li>A URL usually has three main parts:<ol id="ol_xg2_xdk_d1c">
                  <li><b>Protocol:</b> This is at the beginning (like <codeph>http://</codeph> or
                      <codeph>https://</codeph>). It's like the method of reaching a place.</li>
                  <li><b>Domain Name:</b> This follows the protocol and usually includes the
                    website's name and a suffix like <codeph>.com</codeph>, <codeph>.org</codeph>,
                    etc.</li>
                  <li><b>Path:</b> This is after the domain name and often has slashes
                      (<codeph>/</codeph>) and additional text.</li>
                </ol></li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li><b>Identify the base URL:</b><ul id="ul_qwr_ddk_d1c">
              <li>Go to the <uicontrol>Version Settings</uicontrol> page corresponding to your
                current deployment.</li>
              <li>The currently configured base URL corresponds to the value set in the input filed
                with the same name.</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li><b>Compare the URLs:</b><ul id="ul_i5b_h2k_d1c">
              <li>Now, look at the URL in the address bar of your browser and compare it with the
                configured base URL.</li>
              <li>Check if the protocol and domain name are exactly the same in both URLs.</li>
              <li>If the base URL has a path part then this must also be found at the beginning of
                the path part of the current page's URL.</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li><b>Update the base URL:</b> Adjust the base URL for the version of the current site
            configuration to match the URL of the current webpage.<note id="note_wjh_1sp_d1c">All
              pages where the comments component should be loaded must have URLs that start with the
              configured base URL.</note><note id="note_vjb_drp_d1c" type="tip">For WebHelp
              Responsive output, the base URL is the URL where your output is deployed. To be sure
              that you have correctly configured the base URL for your site configuration, just
              append <i>“/index.html”</i> to it and paste the resulting URL in the address bar of
              your internet browser. If the main page of your WebHelp Responsive publication is
              opened, then the Base URL is configured correctly. </note></li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="disabled_site">
      <title>Disabled Site</title>
      <p><b>Error message:</b>
        <i>The site configuration has been disabled.</i></p>
      <p><b>How to fix:</b><ol id="ol_zfk_cw4_d1c">
          <li>Go to the <uicontrol>Settings</uicontrol> page corresponding to the site configuration
            of your current deployment.</li>
          <li>Scroll down to the <uicontrol>Enable this site configuration</uicontrol> section.</li>
          <li>Click <uicontrol>Enable</uicontrol>.</li>
          <li>Go back to your website and reload the page.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="deleted_version">
      <title>Deleted Version</title>
      <p><b>Error message:</b>
        <i>The version has been deleted.</i></p>
      <p><b>How to fix:</b><ol id="ol_rmh_nfk_d1c">
          <li>Go to the <uicontrol>Versions</uicontrol> page corresponding to your current site
            configuration.</li>
          <li>Create a new version for the current site configuration.</li>
          <li>Redeploy the website using the installation fragment of the newly created
            version.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="site_owner_deleted_account">
      <title>Site owner with deleted account</title>
      <p><b>Error message:</b>
        <i>The site owner has deleted their account.</i></p>
      <p><b>How to fix:</b><ol id="ol_irf_c1p_d1c">
          <li>Log in with as the site owner.</li>
          <li>Go to the <uicontrol>Profile</uicontrol> page.</li>
          <li>In the <uicontrol>Recover Deleted Account</uicontrol> section click
              <uicontrol>Recover</uicontrol>.</li>
          <li>Go back to your website and reload the page.</li>
        </ol><note id="note_zpk_51p_d1c">If you cannot log in as the current site owner you can
          create a new site configuration and use the installation fragment from this site
          configuration to redeploy your website.</note></p>
    </section>
    <section id="missing_deployment_token">
      <title>Missing Deployment Token</title>
      <p><b>Error message:</b>
        <i>The application token is missing.</i></p>
      <p><b>How to fix:</b><ol id="ol_igl_fbp_d1c">
          <li>Go to the <uicontrol>Versions</uicontrol> page corresponding to your current site
            configuration.</li>
          <li>Locate the version corresponding to your current deployment.</li>
          <li>Click <uicontrol>Installation</uicontrol> in the version tile.</li>
          <li>Copy the installation fragment.</li>
          <li>Follow the instructions in the <uicontrol>Installation</uicontrol> page to redeploy
            the website using the installation fragment.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="invalid_deployment_token">
      <title>Invalid Deployment Token</title>
      <p><b>Error message:</b>
        <i>The application token is invalid.</i></p>
      <p><b>How to fix:</b><ol id="ol_azs_ybp_d1c">
          <li>Go to the <uicontrol>Versions</uicontrol> page corresponding to your current site
            configuration.</li>
          <li>Locate the version corresponding to your current deployment.</li>
          <li>Click <uicontrol>Installation</uicontrol> in the version tile.</li>
          <li>Copy the installation fragment.</li>
          <li>Follow the instructions in the <uicontrol>Installation</uicontrol> page to redeploy
            the website using the installation fragment.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
