<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ofb-browser-compatibility">
  <title>Browser Compatibility</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Browsers</indexterm>
      </keywords>
      <keywords>
        <keyword outputclass="label">Site Configuration</keyword>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <section id="section_kqz_2rp_4jb">
      <title>Compatible Web Browsers</title>
      <p id="p_fjx_dgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> supports the latest stable version of the
        following web browsers:</p>
      <p id="p_gjx_dgk_54b">
        <dl id="dl_hjx_dgk_54b">
          <dlentry id="dlentry_ijx_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Desktop Devices</dt>
            <dd>
              <ul id="ul_dl3_1qp_4jb">
                <li id="li_jjx_dgk_54b">Google Chrome [recommended for optimal performance and user
                  experience]</li>
                <li id="li_kjx_dgk_54b">Mozilla Firefox</li>
                <li id="li_ljx_dgk_54b">Microsoft Edge</li>
                <li id="li_mjx_dgk_54b">macOS Safari</li>
              </ul>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_njx_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Mobile Devices</dt>
            <dd>
              <ul id="ul_tlp_gqp_4jb">
                <li id="li_ojx_dgk_54b">Chrome for Android</li>
                <li id="li_pjx_dgk_54b">Safari Mobile iOS</li>
              </ul>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
        <note type="attention" id="note_qjx_dgk_54b">Your browser version must be a stable release (not an <i>alpha</i>,
            <i>beta</i>, <i>nightly</i>, or <i>development</i> build).</note>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_jn2_lqp_4jb">
      <title>Browser Configuration Requirements</title>
      <p id="p_rjx_dgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> requires the following conditions in each type of browser:<ul
          id="ul_fj5_pqp_4jb">
          <li id="li_sjx_dgk_54b">JavaScript must be enabled.</li>
          <li id="li_tjx_dgk_54b">Cookies must be enabled.</li>
          <li id="li_ujx_dgk_54b">Local storage must be enabled.</li>
          <li id="li_vjx_dgk_54b">TLS v1.2 or above is required.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <note type="other" othertype="Limitation of Liability" id="note_wjx_dgk_54b">
      <p id="p_xjx_dgk_54b">Supported browsers have undergone compatibility testing by Syncro Soft. Syncro Soft
        recommends that customers always use browsers listed in the above list. Any variance has
        some level of risk because the combination has not been tested. If you choose to use a
        browser not listed and encounter an issue requiring support from Syncro Soft, the support
        team may require you to test and reproduce the issue using recommended system requirements
        in order to receive further support. If a supported browser that is listed above has a new
        version released, the Syncro Soft support team may provide support. The Syncro Soft support
        team will accept support issues relating to using these newer and untested browser releases
        and will validate (on a case-by-case basis) whether or not Syncro Soft can provide technical
        support.</p>
    </note>
  </body>
</topic>
