<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ofb-impose-rate-limits">
  <title>Impose Rate Limits for <ph><tm tmtype="tm">OpenAI</tm></ph> API Keys</title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_qb3_pvv_3dc">It is possible to impose rate limits (requests per minute and tokens per
      minute) for Open AI projects where API keys are configured in <ph keyref="product"/>. It is
      recommended to define the API Keys at a project level. They should be defined in a project
      other that the organization's default project. This allows you to impose custom requests and
      tokens per minute limits. You can also impose a custom budget on the associated project and
      custom alerts when a certain budget limit has been reached.</p>
    <section id="section_xjm_2wv_3dc">
      <title>Set Tokens per Minute and Requests per Minute Limits at Project Level</title>
      <p id="p_yjm_2wv_3dc">OpenAI provides built-in mechanisms for limiting usage at the project
        level for tokens per minute (TPM) and requests per minute (RPM). These limits can be set
        through the OpenAI organization dashboard:<ol id="ul_akm_2wv_3dc">
          <li id="li_bkm_2wv_3dc">Access your Organization’s settings:<ul id="ul_ckm_2wv_3dc">
              <li id="li_dkm_2wv_3dc">Go to the <xref href="https://platform.openai.com/"
                  format="html" scope="external">OpenAI Dashboard</xref>.</li>
              <li id="li_ekm_2wv_3dc">Under the <uicontrol>Organization</uicontrol> tab, navigate to
                the <uicontrol>API Keys</uicontrol> or <uicontrol>Projects</uicontrol> section,
                depending on your specific configuration.</li>
          </ul></li>
          <li id="li_fkm_2wv_3dc">Select the project where you want limits set.</li>
          <li id="li_ikm_2wv_3dc">Set rate limits:<ul id="ul_jkm_2wv_3dc">
              <li id="li_kkm_2wv_3dc">Open the <uicontrol>Rate Limits</uicontrol> section for the
                particular project.</li>
              <li id="li_lkm_2wv_3dc">Specify the maximum tokens per minute (TPM) and requests per
                minute (RPM) that you want to allow for that project.</li>
          </ul></li>
          <li id="li_mkm_2wv_3dc">Save the settings and the limits will be enforced automatically by
            OpenAI.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="_2._7B_7DSetaBudgetLimitandAlerts_7B_7D_3A">
      <title>Set a Budget Limit and Alerts</title>
      <p id="p_pkm_2wv_3dc">While the rate limits control the API’s throughput, you can also set a
        budget limit at the organization level:</p>
      <ol id="ul_qkm_2wv_3dc">
        <li id="li_rkm_2wv_3dc">
          <p id="p_skm_2wv_3dc"> Go to the <xref href="https://platform.openai.com/account/billing"
              format="html" scope="external">Billing</xref> section of your OpenAI account.</p>
        </li>
        <li id="li_pnl_xwv_3dc">Under the <b>Usage Limits</b> tab, you can set:<ul
            id="ul_alm_2wv_3dc">
            <li id="li_blm_2wv_3dc"><uicontrol>Soft Limit</uicontrol> - This sends you alerts when
              your spending reaches a specified percentage (e.g., 80%) of the limit.</li>
            <li id="li_clm_2wv_3dc"><uicontrol>Hard Limit</uicontrol> - This enforces a cap,
              stopping API requests when your budget is exhausted.</li>
        </ul></li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    <section id="_3._7B_7DBudgetAlarmsandNotifications_7B_7D_3A">
      <title>Budget Alarms and Notifications</title>
      <p id="p_dlm_2wv_3dc">OpenAI automatically provides email notifications as you approach the
        soft limit or when you hit the hard limit. You can customize these notifications in the
        <uicontrol>Usage Limits</uicontrol> section.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys" format="html" scope="external">
      <linktext><ph><tm tmtype="tm">OpenAI</tm></ph> API keys</linktext>
    </link>
    <link href="ofb-configuring-openai-connection.dita"/>
  </related-links>
</topic>
