<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ofb-restricted-access-to-cookies">
  <title>Restricted Access to Cookies and Site Data</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Cookies</indexterm>
      </keywords>
      <keywords>
        <keyword outputclass="label">User Authentication</keyword>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_dxm_3ry_twb">If you see a message about <i>restricted access to cookies and site
        data</i>, it is because your current browser has restricted access to cookies and site data
      for embedded, cross-origin resources such as the <b>Oxygen Feedback</b> commenting
      component.</p>
    <p id="p_exm_3ry_twb"><b>Oxygen Feedback</b> is embedded in a website to allow you to add
      comments. To be able to post comments on an <b>Oxygen Feedback-enabled</b> website, you first
      need to authenticate using an <b>Oxygen Feedback</b> account.</p>
    <p id="p_fxm_3ry_twb"><b>Oxygen Feedback</b> uses HTTP cookies to authenticate user requests and
      maintain session information. The cookies are used to store the current user's Session ID on
      the client side (in the browser).</p>
    <p id="p_gxm_3ry_twb">Because <b>Oxygen Feedback</b> is embedded in an iframe in the site you
      are visiting and resides on a different domain, it is considered by the browsers to be a
      cross-origin resource and its session cookie is considered to be a third-party cookie.</p>
    <p id="p_hxm_3ry_twb">The semantics around third-party cookie blocking policies differ from
      browser to browser, but the core functionality is similar: cross-origin resources embedded in
      a third-party context are not given access to the same cookies and site storage that they
      would have access to when loaded in a first-party context.</p>
    <p id="p_ixm_3ry_twb">These cookie blocking policies are known to break embedded cross-origin
      content that requires access to its first-party storage. </p>
    <p id="p_jxm_3ry_twb">Browsers that restrict access to cookies for embedded, cross-origin sites,
      provide a way for these sites to gain unrestricted access to their cookies by requesting user
      consent (see <xref href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Storage_Access_API"
        format="html" scope="external"/>).</p>
    <p id="p_kxm_3ry_twb">For example, embedded cross-origin websites would be able to authenticate
      users who are already logged in to their first-party services.</p>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="https://hacks.mozilla.org/2021/02/introducing-state-partitioning/" format="html"
      scope="external"/>
  </related-links>
</topic>
