<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ofb-faq">
  <title>Frequently Asked Questions</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>FAQ</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Frequently Asked Questions</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b>Question:</b> Why do I need Oxygen Feedback?</dt>
          <dd><b>Answer:</b> It gives your customers a voice as well as an effective way for you to
            interact with them. It provides your customers with a fast and simple way to offer
            feedback or ask questions and it provides you with a very efficient system for
            responding, moderating comments, and managing the comment system.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b>Question:</b> Is Oxygen XML Editor/Author required to use Oxygen Feedback?</dt>
          <dd><b>Answer:</b> No. You can use <b>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</b> or the <b>Oxygen XML
              WebHelp</b> plugin to integrate <b>Oxygen Feedback</b> into WebHelp documentation, but
            it can also be embedded on any HTML-based webpage.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b>Question:</b> Do I need my own server to manage and integrate Oxygen Feedback?</dt>
          <dd><b>Answer:</b> No. While there are various advantages to using your own Enterprise
            Server, there are cloud-based options for administering <b>Oxygen Feedback</b> without
            the need for your own server.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b>Question:</b> Can I decide which comments posted by my customers are
            displayed?</dt>
          <dd><b>Answer:</b> Yes. There is an option that specifies whether or not comments are
            moderated and if that option is enabled, all new or edited comments require approval
            from an Administrator or Moderator.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b>Question:</b> What is a Site?</dt>
          <dd><b>Answer:</b> In <b>Oxygen Feedback</b>, a <term keyref="glossentry_fb_site"
              >site</term> is a shorter name for a <term keyref="glossentry_fb_site_configuration"
            />. A site configuration provides the means to moderate comments, manage users,
            configure the comment system, and install it in your website or WebHelp
            documentation.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b>Question:</b> I publish multiple user guides that are stored in separate projects
            and subdirectories within the same root URL. Do I need to create a separate site
            configuration for each user guide or can they all be managed using a common root
            URL?</dt>
          <dd><b>Answer:</b> This particular directory structure can be managed both as a single
            site configuration (using the root URL) or as five different site configurations. Using
            a separate site configuration for each guide offers greater flexibility. For example,
            you can assign different moderators to each guide and view usage statistics for each
            separate guide. If you use one site configuration, the moderators cannot be separated
            and the usage statistics will not be differentiated for each guides.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
