<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ofb-error-messages">
  <title>Error Messages</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Error messages</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <section id="section_sgj_d45_gjb">
      <title>Error 016 - Internal Server Error</title>
      <p>If you receive this message (<b>Error 016 - Internal server error</b>), contact the
          <b>Oxygen Support Team</b> from the <xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/technical_support.html" format="html" scope="external"
          >Support Page</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_fjx_s45_gjb">
      <title>Error 018 - Your Session Has Expired</title>
      <p>If you receive this message (<b>Error 018 - Your session has expired</b>), simply refresh
        your browser session and log back in.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_rnj_3p5_gjb">
      <title>Error - Database Connection Could Not Be Established</title>
      <p>If you receive this message (<b>Error - Database connection could not be established</b>),
        contact the <b>Oxygen Support Team</b> from the <xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/technical_support.html" format="html" scope="external"
          >Support Page</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_g4b_lzr_3jb">
      <title>Cannot Load the Application for the Current Configuration</title>
      <p>If you see this message in the output where the Feedback comments area should be displayed,
        something went wrong with the installation. There are three possible cases:</p>
      <p>
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>The Application Token is Invalid</dt>
            <dd>If this error message (<b>The application token is invalid</b>) is displayed under
              the <b>Cannot load the application for the current configuration</b> message, it most
              likely means that the particular <xref href="ofb-version-management.dita">version for
                this site configuration</xref> has been deleted and it needs to be reinstalled. Go
              to the <xref href="ofb-version-management.dita"><uicontrol>Site Versions</uicontrol>
                page</xref>, click the <uicontrol>Add Version</uicontrol> button to create a new
              version and complete the wizard, or click the <uicontrol>Installation</uicontrol>
              button on an existing version and complete the process.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>The Application Token is Missing</dt>
            <dd>If this error message (<b>The application token is missing</b>) is displayed under
              the <b>Cannot load the application for the current configuration</b> message, it most
              likely means that something was modified in the <xref
                href="ofb-version-management.dita#ofb-version-management/install-version"
                >installation fragment</xref> or something went wrong during the installation. You
              simply need to reinstall the particular version of this site configuration. Go to the
                <xref href="ofb-version-management.dita"><uicontrol>Site Versions</uicontrol>
                page</xref> and click the <uicontrol>Installation</uicontrol> button on the
              particular version and complete the process.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>The Site Owner Has Deleted Their Account</dt>
            <dd>If this error message (<b>The site owner has deleted their account</b>) is displayed
              under the <b>Cannot load the application for the current configuration</b> message, it
              means that the <xref href="ofb-team-management.dita#ofb-team-management/owner"
                  ><i>Owner</i> of the particular site configuration</xref> has deleted their
              account. Another user will need to <xref href="ofb-creating-site.dita">create a new
                site configuration</xref> and reinstall the comment system.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_itn_1rt_zmb" product="feedback-enterprise">
      <title>The Email Address Cannot Be Retrieved From the LDAP Server</title>
      <p>If <xref href="ofbENT-how_to_install.dita#fb-install-steps/section_lwc_24s_zmb">LDAP
          authentication is enabled</xref> and a user enters valid credentials but the Feedback
        service cannot retrieve the email address from the LDAP server, the authentication fails
        with the following error
        message:<codeblock outputclass="">The email address cannot be retrieved from the LDAP server
Contact the server administrator to check the LDAP properties configuration</codeblock></p>
      <p>The possible causes for this are:<ul id="ul_pmf_5rt_zmb">
          <li>The LDAP user entity does not contain such information.</li>
          <li>The value configured for the <codeph>feedback.ldap.emailAttribute</codeph> property
            from the <filepath>$OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_HOME_DIR/config/feedback-ldap.properties</filepath>
            file does not match the LDAP attribute that describes the user's email address on the
            LDAP server.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
