<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ofb-site-installation">
  <title>Installation Page</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Site installation page</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Add site wizard<indexterm>Installation</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Site creation wizard<indexterm>Installation</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>The third page of the site creation wizard is the <uicontrol>Installation</uicontrol> page.
      This page is where you choose how to install the configured Feedback system. There are three
      options:</p>
    <p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Oxygen XML Editor</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Choose this option if you are adding the Feedback system to WebHelp Responsive
            documentation AND you will generate the documentation using a transformation scenario in
              <b>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</b>. When you select this option, instructions will be
            displayed to help you with the transformation.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Oxygen XML WebHelp</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Choose this option if you are adding the Feedback system to WebHelp Responsive
            documentation AND you will generate the documentation using a command-line script. When
            you select this option, instructions will be displayed to help you with the script.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Any Platform</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Choose this option if you are adding the Feedback system to a website. When you select
            this option, an HTML fragment will be displayed. You need to copy this fragment and
            paste it into your HTML code for each webpage that you want to have the Feedback system
            embedded.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
