<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ofb-faceted-search">
    <title>Faceted Search</title>
  <body>
    <p>The <b>Oxygen Feedback</b> search engine supports facets and faceted search functionality.
      Facets are predefined categories that are associated with search results. Users can select one
      or more of these facets when searching WebHelp output to narrow down their search results to a
      specific category or set of categories, and the search engine will only display results that
      match all the selected facets. This topic describes the process of collecting facets and how
      to use this feature on your websites.</p>
    <section id="section_pmt_smc_bzb">
      <title>How Facets are Collected</title>
      <p>To enable faceted search, the documentation must have a
          <filepath>search-facets.json</filepath> file that stores all the possible categories and
        their values. The file is located at this path:
          <filepath>$out-folder/oxygen-webhelp/app/facets/</filepath>. The file looks like
        this:<codeblock id="codeblock_kpx_lrc_bzb" outputclass="language-json">{
  "facets": [
    {
      "key": "product",
      "navtitle": "Product",
      "categories": [
        {
          "key": "X2000",
          "navtitle": "X2000 Phone Guide",
          "categories": []
        },
        {
          "key": "X1000",
          "navtitle": "X1000 Phone Guide",
          "categories": []
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "key": "audience",
      "navtitle": "Audience",
      "categories": [
        {
          "key": "Technician",
          "navtitle": "Technician Levels",
          "categories": [
            {
              "key": "TechnicianOne",
              "navtitle": "Technician Level One",
              "categories": []
            },
            {
              "key": "TechnicianTwo",
              "navtitle": "Technician Level Two",
              "categories": []
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "key": "BasicUser",
          "navtitle": "Basic User Level",
          "categories": []
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
</codeblock>For information about how this file is generated, see <xref
          href="https://oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-webhelp-responsive/cshelp.html?contextId=wh-faceted-search"
          format="html" scope="external">How to Configure Faceted Search in WebHelp
        Output</xref>.</p>
      <p>In addition, the topics must have a generated <codeph>meta</codeph> tag that stores the
        topic's categories, subcategories, and values. The structure should look like
        this:<codeblock id="codeblock_obh_gpc_bzb" outputclass="language-xml">&lt;meta name="topic-facet" content="family/lamiaceae"></codeblock></p>
      <p>In this example, the topic has the <codeph>family</codeph> category and
          <codeph>lamiaceae</codeph> value.</p>
      <p>The <b>Oxygen Feedback</b> search engine also supports hierarchical
        categories:<codeblock id="codeblock_zgd_jpc_bzb" outputclass="language-xml">&lt;meta name="topic-facet" content="level/advanced/technician"></codeblock></p>
      <p>In this example, the topic has the <codeph>level</codeph> category,
          <codeph>advanced</codeph> subcategory, and <codeph>technician</codeph> value.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_zx1_spc_bzb">
      <title>How to Add Facets to your <ph keyref="whr-output"/> Output?</title>
      <p>To learn more about facets and how to add them to your website, see <b><xref
            href="https://oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-webhelp-responsive/cshelp.html?contextId=wh-faceted-search"
            format="html" scope="external">How to Configure Faceted Search in WebHelp
          Output</xref></b>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="resources">
      <title>Resources</title>
      <p id="p_agf_xh1_hzb">Video - <xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/demo/faceted_search_queries_in_webhelp.html" format="html"
          scope="external"><b>Faceted Search in Oxygen WebHelp Responsive Output Powered by Oxygen
            Feedback</b></xref>:<div><object width="450" height="250"
              data="https://youtu.be/lhpgGTLg5kI" outputclass="iframe"/></div></p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link
      href="https://oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-webhelp-responsive/cshelp.html?contextId=wh-faceted-search"
      format="html" scope="external">
      <linktext>How to Configure Faceted Search in WebHelp Output</linktext>
    </link>
  </related-links>
</topic>
