<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ofb-signing-up">
  <title>Creating Your Account and Organization</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Sign up</indexterm>
      </keywords>
      <keywords>
        <keyword outputclass="label">User Authentication</keyword>
        <keyword outputclass="label">Privacy Policy</keyword>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_l3h_4ms_prb">To integrate the <b>Oxygen Feedback</b> commenting system, you first need
      to create an account along with an organization. The organization groups all of the users,
      site configurations, and all the related data that is isolated from other organizations. When
      you create an account and organization, you are automatically assigned the role of the
      organization <b><term keyref="glossentry_fb_owner"/></b>.</p>
    <p id="p_xgx_dgk_54b">To create an account:<ol id="ul_a3z_rc2_djb">
        <li id="li_ygx_dgk_54b">Go to the <ph keyref="product"/> administration interface log
          in/sign up page<ph product="feedback"> (https://feedback.oxygenxml.com/login)</ph>.<note
            id="note_hqs_cds_5rb">Administrators/moderators can also initiate the account creation
            process from a webpage where the <b>Oxygen Feedback</b> commenting component is
            installed by clicking the <uicontrol>Log in</uicontrol> button/link to open a log
            in/sign up window. In this method, you will not create an <i>Organization ID</i>. Your
            account will be created within the organization that integrated the Feedback component
            and you will not be assigned as the owner (since the owner was already established when
            the organization was created).</note></li>
        <li id="li_pdk_scs_5rb">Go to the <uicontrol>Sign Up</uicontrol> tab.</li>
        <li id="li_m5n_pts_prb">Choose an <uicontrol>Organization ID</uicontrol> (unless you
          creating an account within an already created organization). It must be unique (two
          organizations cannot share the same ID).</li>
        <li id="li_ahx_dgk_54b">Select the <uicontrol>I agree to the Terms of Service and
            acknowledge the Privacy Policy</uicontrol> option. You can click the <uicontrol>Terms of
            Service</uicontrol> or <uicontrol>Privacy Policy</uicontrol> links to navigate to a
          webpage where you can read those legal documents.</li>
        <li id="li_zgx_dgk_54b">
          <ul id="ul_thq_dct_prb">
            <li id="li_uhq_dct_prb">You can click on <uicontrol>Google</uicontrol> or
                <uicontrol>Facebook</uicontrol> buttons<ph product="feedback-enterprise"> (or other
                authentication methods implemented by your <term
                  keyref="glossentry_fb_platform_admin">Feedback Platform Admin</term>)</ph> to
              create an account using those particular credentials.</li>
            <li id="li_r4g_2ct_prb">Otherwise, enter your information to create an account using
              your name and email address, complete the reCAPTCHA test, and click the
                <uicontrol>SIGN UP</uicontrol> button at the bottom. A confirmation email will be
              sent to the email address you entered. Open the email and click the <uicontrol>Confirm
                email address</uicontrol> button/link to complete the registration process. The
              confirmation link is valid for 24 hours.</li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ol></p>
    <p id="p_zrp_x52_t4b"><b>Result:</b> You are directed to the <uicontrol>Dashboard</uicontrol>
        page.<ph product="feedback"> A pop-up window offers information about your subscription. By
        default, you are given a 30-day <uicontrol>Starter Plan</uicontrol> free trial, but you can
        click on the <uicontrol>subscription plans</uicontrol> link in the pop-up window to see the
        other subscription options.</ph></p>
  </body>
</topic>
