<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ofb-light-dark-theme-support">
  <title>Light and Dark Theme Support for Feedback Components</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Light theme</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Dark theme</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Theme support</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Oxygen Feedback theme</indexterm>
      </keywords>
      <keywords>
        <keyword outputclass="label">WebHelp Output</keyword>
        <keyword outputclass="label">Site Configuration</keyword>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_lt1_dgk_54b">The embedded <b>Oxygen Feedback</b> components that are integrated into your website
      support both Light and Dark themes, allowing them to adapt to the visual style of your website.
      When you switch between Light and Dark mode using the theme switcher in the <b>WebHelp
        Responsive</b> host page, all embedded Feedback components automatically match the selected
      theme. No additional configuration is needed.</p>
    <p id="p_lt2_dgk_54b"><b>Important:</b> This Light and Dark theme support applies only to the
        <b>Oxygen Feedback</b> components that are embedded in the host page (third-party
      website).</p>
    <section id="section_lt2_dgk_54b">
      <title>Components Affected by Theme Change</title>
      <p id="p_lt3_dgk_54b">The theme switcher in the <b>WebHelp Responsive</b> host page determines whether the
        embedded <b>Oxygen Feedback</b> components render in Light or Dark mode. All of the following
        embedded Feedback components automatically match the selected theme:</p>
      <ul id="ul_lt4_dgk_54b">
        <li id="li_lt5_dgk_54b">Comments</li>
        <li id="li_lt6_dgk_54b">Page Rating</li>
        <li id="li_lt7_dgk_54b">Block-Level Comments</li>
        <li id="li_lt8_dgk_54b">AI Assistant</li>
        <li id="li_lt9_dgk_54b">AI-Enhanced Search Summary</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="section_lt11_dgk_54b">
      <title>Theme Switcher Integration</title>
      <p id="p_lt12_dgk_54b">The theme change support is designed to work out of the box with the
        theme switcher of the <b>WebHelp Responsive</b> host website. The theme switcher must be
        explicitly activated by generating the <b>WebHelp Responsive</b> output using the
          <codeph>webhelp.enable.dark.mode</codeph> transformation parameter set to
          <codeph>true</codeph>. For more details on how to enable the Dark Theme support in your
          <b>WebHelp Responsive</b> output, see the following topic in the <b>Oxygen WebHelp User
          Guide</b> about <xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-webhelp-responsive/topics/webhelp-create-dark-mode-ready-publishing-template.html"
          format="html" scope="external">How to Create a Dark Mode-Ready Publishing
          Template</xref>.<note id="note_lt13_dgk_54b">The theme switcher support was added starting
          with version 28 of <b>Oxygen Publishing Engine</b>.</note></p>
      <p id="p_lt14_dgk_54b">Although <b>Oxygen Feedback</b> is designed to adapt its theme automatically to the user's
        choice in the <b>WebHelp Responsive</b> host website, if integrated in a non-WebHelp site, it
        might be configured to change its appearance by adding the <codeph>data-wh-theme</codeph>
        attribute on the <xmlelement>html</xmlelement> root element of the current host page with one
        of the <codeph>light</codeph> or <codeph>dark</codeph> values, depending on the current desired
        theme.</p>
      <p id="p_lt15_dgk_54b">If the <codeph>data-wh-theme</codeph> attribute is missing, then the light theme is used
        by default.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_lt16_dgk_54b">
      <title>Theme Customization and Style Independence</title>
      <p id="p_lt17_dgk_54b">It is important to understand that the styles and colors of the embedded <b>Oxygen
          Feedback</b> components are <b>not customizable</b> and are <b>not inherited or
          influenced</b> by the current styles in <b>Oxygen WebHelp Responsive</b> output or any other
        hosting website. The embedded Feedback components maintain their own independent styling
        system.</p>
      <p id="p_lt18_dgk_54b">The styles from the Light theme of the embedded <b>Oxygen Feedback</b> components are
        designed to fit with the styles of the majority of websites rendered in a light theme,
        providing visual harmony while maintaining their distinct appearance. Similarly, the styles of
        the Dark theme of the embedded <b>Oxygen Feedback</b> components are designed to fit within the
        majority of dark styled websites, ensuring a cohesive look and feel across different website
        designs.</p>
      <p id="p_lt19_dgk_54b">Both the Light and Dark themes include optimized contrast ratios for text, icons, and
        visual elements to ensure readability and legibility in their respective modes. The themes are
        designed to align with accessibility best practices for contrast and readability, with visual
        elements such as selection outlines, markers, status badges, and control buttons calibrated for
        appropriate visibility in each mode.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>

