<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ofb-ai-assistant">
  <title>AI Assistant Chatbot</title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_jjd_b4b_qbc">It is possible to integrate a chatbot component in <b>Oxygen WebHelp
        Responsive</b> output where <b>Oxygen Feedback</b> is installed, allowing users to chat with
      the <uicontrol>AI Assistant</uicontrol> to help find answers to questions and find information
      more quickly and accurately.<note id="note_ed3_3sn_zyb"> This functionality requires the
        output to be generated using <b>Oxygen WebHelp</b> version 25 or later. </note></p>
    <p id="p_jh5_g4b_qbc">When the <xref href="#ofb-ai-assistant/section_cjj_wwp_dzb">functionality
        is enabled</xref>, a floating <uicontrol>AI Assistant</uicontrol> button is displayed in the
      lower-right corner of the WebHelp page. Clicking the button directs the user to the chat page
      associated with the current version for the site configuration.<note id="note_nkw_15b_qbc"
        type="note">To access the chat page, the user must be authenticated.</note></p>
    <p id="p_mmz_54b_qbc">In the chat page, the user can interact with the AI using the text field
      at the bottom of the page. It includes the following actions:<ul id="ul_db5_cpb_qbc">
        <li id="li_djm_npb_qbc"><uicontrol>Send</uicontrol> - Sends the data entered in the text
          field to the AI Assistant.</li>
        <li id="li_iqc_fpb_qbc"><uicontrol>Stop</uicontrol> - Stops a reply from the AI Assistant
          that is in progress after clicking the <uicontrol>Send</uicontrol> button.</li>
        <li id="li_eb5_cpb_qbc"><uicontrol>Clear chat</uicontrol> - Resets the discussion by
          removing the previous messages.</li>
        <li id="li_sp3_5pb_qbc"><uicontrol>Debug</uicontrol> - Displays a log with the entire
          conversation with the AI Assistant.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p id="p_htq_m5b_qbc">When you click the <uicontrol>Send</uicontrol> button, the message is
      submitted to the AI for processing and the progress is displayed above the message input area.
      The user can continue to type data in the message input area but the
        <uicontrol>Send</uicontrol> button is disabled until the reply from the AI is complete. Note
      that using the <uicontrol><shortcut>ENTER</shortcut></uicontrol> key adds a new line in the
      message and does not submit the message.</p>
    <p id="p_u4s_btd_4cc">After the search processes and the AI's response is received, the user can
      continue the discussion with the AI to refine the results by using the <uicontrol>Continue in
        chat</uicontrol> button that appears below the results in the right side. This sends the
      discussion to the chat page.</p>
    <section id="section_cjj_wwp_dzb">
      <title>Enabling the AI Assistant Chatbot</title>
      <p id="p_sl5_flb_qbc">The AI Assistant functionality is not enabled by default. To enable the
        AI Assistant:<ol id="ol_cgt_fxp_dzb">
          <li id="li_tl5_flb_qbc">In the administration interface of <ph keyref="product"/>, go to
            the <xref href="ofb-version-management.dita"><uicontrol>Version Settings</uicontrol>
              page</xref> for the particular version where you want semantic search enabled.</li>
          <li id="li_ul5_flb_qbc">Scroll to the <uicontrol>Content Indexing and Search</uicontrol>
            section and click <uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol> to expand the section.</li>
          <li id="li_vl5_flb_qbc">Select the <uicontrol>Enable content indexing</uicontrol> and
              <uicontrol>Enable AI Assistant</uicontrol> options.<note id="note_svy_byp_dzb">The AI
              Assistant functionality requires that you configure <ph keyref="product"/> to <xref
                href="ofb-configuring-openai-connection.dita">connect to <tm tmtype="tm">OpenAI</tm>
                on your behalf</xref>.</note></li>
          <li id="li_wl5_flb_qbc">Click <uicontrol>Save</uicontrol>. </li>
        </ol><note id="note_m5k_r5f_mcc" type="notice">The <uicontrol>AI Assistant</uicontrol> can
          generate costs. It is recommended to use support from OpenAI to configure a budget limit
          on the <xref href="https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys" format="html"
            scope="external">API key</xref> configured for the organization.</note></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_bx5_yqb_qbc">
      <title>Troubleshooting</title>
      <p id="p_cx5_yqb_qbc">If you are having trouble getting the <uicontrol>AI
          Assistant</uicontrol> button to appear in your output, make sure you have met the
        conditions listed below.</p>
      <p id="p_wd4_grb_qbc">The <uicontrol>AI Assistant</uicontrol> button appears if the following
        conditions are met:<ul id="ul_b1w_3rb_qbc">
          <li id="li_c1w_3rb_qbc">The URL of the current page matches the base URL of the current
            version of the site configuration.</li>
          <li id="li_pxv_krb_qbc">The site configuration has not been disabled.</li>
          <li id="li_xvg_lrb_qbc">The site configuration or version has not been deleted.</li>
          <li id="li_bfs_lrb_qbc">The site owner has not deleted their account.</li>
          <li id="li_whp_mrb_qbc">The <ph product="feedback">subscription</ph><ph
              product="feedback-enterprise">license</ph> is valid.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="ofb-ai-search-summary.dita"/>
  </related-links>
</topic>
