<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ofb-ai-search-summary">
  <title>AI-Enhanced Search Summary</title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_brt_g5m_5bc"><ph keyref="product"/> includes an option to display an AI-enhanced search
      summary in the WebHelp search results page (at the top of the page, before the usual search
      results) when a user enters a search query that is identified as a question (the query
      contains more than two words and ends in a question mark or the query starts with an
      interrogative/question word). The response is generated using the <xref
        href="ofb-ai-assistant.dita">AI Assistant</xref> based upon information found in the current
      publication.</p>
    <p>If the <xref href="ofb-ai-assistant.dita">AI Assistant chatbot feature</xref> is enabled, an
      authenticated user can continue the discussion with the AI to refine the results by using the
        <uicontrol>Continue in chat</uicontrol> button that appears below the results on the right
      side. When you click the button, a pop-up is displayed informing the user that conversations
      with the AI Assistant may be recorded and continuing means they agree to the terms. After
      continuing, the conversation is moved to a new dialog box where you can have a conversation
      with the AI Assistant to refine the results further. The content from the generated search
      summary (both the user's search query and the AI Assistant's reply) is displayed in the new
      chat dialog box to provide proper context for the continued conversation.</p>
    <section id="section_art_g5m_5bc">
      <title>Enabling the AI-Enhanced Search Summary</title>
      <p id="p_bxj_y5m_5bc">The AI-enhanced search summary functionality is not enabled by default.
        To enable it:<ol id="ol_crt_g5m_5bc">
          <li id="li_drt_g5m_5bc">In the administration interface of <ph keyref="product"/>, go to
            the <xref href="ofb-version-management.dita"><uicontrol>Version Settings</uicontrol>
              page</xref> for the particular version where you want semantic search enabled.</li>
          <li id="li_ert_g5m_5bc">Scroll to the <uicontrol>Content Indexing and Search</uicontrol>
            section and click <uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol> to expand the section.</li>
          <li id="li_frt_g5m_5bc">Select the <uicontrol>Enable content indexing</uicontrol> and
              <uicontrol>Enable AI-enhanced search summary</uicontrol> options.<note
              id="note_grt_g5m_5bc">The AI Assistant functionality requires that you configure <ph
                keyref="product"/> to <xref href="ofb-configuring-openai-connection.dita">connect to
                  <tm tmtype="tm">OpenAI</tm> on your behalf</xref>.</note></li>
          <li id="li_hrt_g5m_5bc">Click <uicontrol>Save</uicontrol>.</li>
        </ol><note id="note_m5k_r5f_mcc" type="notice">The <uicontrol>AI-enhanced Search
            Summary</uicontrol> feature can generate costs. It is recommended to use support from
          OpenAI to configure a budget limit on the <xref
            href="https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys" format="html" scope="external">API
            key</xref> configured for the organization.</note></p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="ofb-ai-assistant.dita"/>
  </related-links>
</topic>
