<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ofb-installing-feeback-oxygen">
  <title>Adding Oxygen Feedback to WebHelp Generated from Oxygen XML Editor/Author</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Adding Oxygen Feedback to WebHelp output</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Adding comment system to WebHelp output</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_xx3_11n_r4b">To install <b>Oxygen Feedback</b> in your WebHelp output generated using a transformation
      scenario from <b>Oxygen XML Editor</b> or <b>Oxygen XML Author</b>, use this procedure:</p>
    <section id="section_xbn_sw3_zlb">
      <title>Prerequisites</title>
      <p id="p_ay3_11n_r4b">
        <ul id="ul_by3_11n_r4b">
          <li id="li_onl_yhn_r4b">You must have an installed version of <b>Oxygen XML Editor</b> or <b>Oxygen XML
              Author</b> with a valid license. </li>
          <li id="li_pnl_yhn_r4b">To install and manage <b>Oxygen Feedback</b>, you will need to choose a subscription
            plan during the installation procedure. To see the subscription plans prior to
            installing the product, go to: <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/oxygen_feedback/buy_feedback.html" format="html"
              scope="external"/>.<note id="note_cy3_11n_r4b">If your subscription expires or if the number of page views
              allowed by your plan is exceeded for a particular month, you will receive a
              notification and the comments component will be disabled until the subscription is
              renewed/upgraded or until the end of the month (in the case of exceeding the page
              views limit).</note></li>
        </ul>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_j11_5w3_zlb">
      <title>Installation Procedure</title>
      <p id="p_dy3_11n_r4b">
        <ol id="ol_ey3_11n_r4b">
          <li id="li_qnl_yhn_r4b">Log in to your Feedback account from the <i>login page</i> (<xref
              href="https://feedback.oxygenxml.com/login" format="html" scope="external"/>). You can
            click on <uicontrol>Log in with Google</uicontrol> or <uicontrol>Log in with
              Facebook</uicontrol> to create an account using your Google or Facebook credentials or
            click the <uicontrol>Sign Up</uicontrol> tab to create an account using your name and
            email address.<p id="p_fy3_11n_r4b"><b>Step Result:</b> If this is your first time logging in and you have
              not yet created a site configuration, you are directed to a Welcome page. Otherwise,
              you are directed to the <uicontrol>Dashboard</uicontrol> page.</p></li>
          <li id="li_rnl_yhn_r4b">Click the <uicontrol>Add your first site</uicontrol> button to <xref
              href="ofb-creating-site.dita">create a site configuration</xref><ph
              product="feedback"> (if you are on the <uicontrol>Dashboard</uicontrol> page, click
              the <uicontrol>Add site</uicontrol> link in the top-right corner of the <xref
                href="ofb-dashboard.dita#ofb-dashboard/sites-pane"
                  ><uicontrol>Sites</uicontrol> pane</xref>)</ph>.<ph product="feedback"> If you
              have not already selected a subscription plan, you will be directed to a page where
              you can choose from several options (you will also have the opportunity to choose the
              types of notifications you want to receive).</ph></li>
          <li id="li_snl_yhn_r4b">In the <uicontrol>Settings</uicontrol> page, enter a <uicontrol>Name</uicontrol> and
              <uicontrol>Description</uicontrol> for the site configuration. Some optional settings
            can be adjusted according to your needs. For more details, see the <xref
              href="ofb-site-settings-page.dita"/> topic. Click
              <uicontrol>Continue</uicontrol>.</li>
          <li id="li_tnl_yhn_r4b">
            <p id="p_gy3_11n_r4b">In the <uicontrol>Version</uicontrol> page, you must specify a version and the base
              URL from your website where the WebHelp output is deployed. The
                <uicontrol>Name</uicontrol> field is where you specify the version name or
              identifier. This is helpful if there will be multiple versions for your output. For
              example, if your published output is documentation for a product that has multiple
              released versions, each version probably has its own published documentation. In this
              case, each published version requires a different configuration since the version and
              base URL would be different for each of them.</p>
            <p id="p_hy3_11n_r4b">The <uicontrol>Site base URL</uicontrol> field is where you specify the base URL for
              the website where you publish your output. For WebHelp output, for example, it is the
              URL where your WebHelp output is deployed. Comments will only be displayed on pages
              within the hierarchy of the specified base URL. For more details, see the <xref
                href="ofb-site-initial-version.dita"/> topic. Click
                <uicontrol>Continue</uicontrol>.</p>
          </li>
          <li id="li_unl_yhn_r4b">In the <uicontrol>Installation</uicontrol> page, choose the <uicontrol>Install
              Feedback in WebHelp output generated from Oxygen OXL Editor/Oxygen XML
              Author</uicontrol> option.</li>
          <li id="li_vnl_yhn_r4b">Copy the generated HTML fragment from the <uicontrol>Installation</uicontrol> page in
            the admin UI.</li>
          <li id="li_wnl_yhn_r4b">
            <p id="p_iy3_11n_r4b">In <b>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</b>, open the Configure Transformation Scenario(s)
              dialog box using the toolbar button in the <uicontrol>DITA Maps
              Manager</uicontrol>.</p>
          </li>
          <li id="li_xnl_yhn_r4b">
            <p id="p_jy3_11n_r4b">Select and duplicate the <uicontrol>DITA Map WebHelp Responsive</uicontrol>
              scenario.</p>
          </li>
          <li id="li_ynl_yhn_r4b">
            <p id="p_ky3_11n_r4b">Go to the <uicontrol>Feedback</uicontrol> tab, click the <uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol>
              button located at the bottom-right of the dialog box, and paste the HTML fragment that
              was copied to the clipboard.</p>
          </li>
          <li id="li_znl_yhn_r4b">
            <p id="p_ly3_11n_r4b">Run the transformation and deploy the WebHelp output to a web server.</p>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_cd2_hy3_zlb">
      <title>Install Feedback Using a Publishing Template</title>
      <p id="p_my3_11n_r4b">It is also possible to install <b>Oxygen Feedback</b> using an <xref
          href="http://oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-webhelp-responsive/topics/whr-publishing-template.html"
          format="html" scope="external"><term>Oxygen Publishing Template</term></xref>:<ol id="ol_ny3_11n_r4b">
          <li id="li_a4l_yhn_r4b">Complete steps 1 through 4 in the <xref
              href="#ofb-installing-feeback-oxygen/section_j11_5w3_zlb" format="dita">procedure
              above</xref>.</li>
          <li id="li_b4l_yhn_r4b">In the <uicontrol>Installation</uicontrol> page, choose the <uicontrol>Install
              Feedback in WebHelp output generated from a command line</uicontrol> option.</li>
          <li id="li_c4l_yhn_r4b">In <b>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</b>, create an XML file (for example,
              <filepath>feedback-install.xml</filepath>) on disk with the content generated in the
              <uicontrol>Installation</uicontrol> page from the Feedback admin UI.</li>
          <li id="li_d4l_yhn_r4b">Create a Publishing Template, if you have not already done so. If you need help, see
              <xref
              href="http://oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-webhelp-responsive/topics/whr_publishing_templates.html"
              format="html" scope="external">Working with Publishing Templates</xref>.</li>
          <li id="li_e4l_yhn_r4b">Copy the newly created XML file to a folder inside the publishing template's root
            folder.</li>
          <li id="li_f4l_yhn_r4b">Open the template descriptor file associated with your publishing template and add a
            reference to the newly created XML file in the <term>html-fragments</term>
            section.<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_oy3_11n_r4b">&lt;publishing-template>
 ...    
  &lt;html-fragments>
    &lt;fragment file="custom-template/feedback-install.xml" 
     placeholder="webhelp.fragment.feedback"/>
  &lt;/html-fragments></codeblock></li>
          <li id="li_g4l_yhn_r4b">
            <p id="p_py3_11n_r4b">Open the Configure Transformation Scenario(s) dialog box using the toolbar button in
              the <uicontrol>DITA Maps Manager</uicontrol> and duplicate the <uicontrol>DITA Map
                WebHelp Responsive</uicontrol> scenario.</p>
          </li>
          <li id="li_h4l_yhn_r4b">Click the <uicontrol>Choose Custom Publishing Template</uicontrol> link and select
            your template.</li>
          <li id="li_i4l_yhn_r4b">Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> to save the changes to the transformation
            scenario.</li>
          <li id="li_j4l_yhn_r4b">
            <p id="p_qy3_11n_r4b">Run the transformation and deploy the WebHelp output to a web server.</p>
          </li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <note type="tip" id="note_ry3_11n_r4b">
      <p id="p_sy3_11n_r4b">To see a demonstration of how to install <b>Oxygen Feedback</b> in WebHelp output generated
        from <b>Oxygen XML Editor</b>, watch our installation video:</p>
      <p id="p_ty3_11n_r4b"><object width="450" height="250" data="https://www.youtube.com/embed/JDgkBQj4XHs"
          outputclass="iframe">
          <param name="allowfullscreen" value="true"/>
        </object></p>
    </note>
      
    
  </body>
</topic>
