<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ofb-installing-feeback-command-line">
  <title>Adding Oxygen Feedback to WebHelp Generated from a Command Line</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Adding Oxygen Feedback to WebHelp output</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Adding comment system to WebHelp output</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>To install <b>Oxygen Feedback</b> in your WebHelp output generated using a transformation
      from a command line (using the <b>Oxygen XML WebHelp</b> plugin or <b>Oxygen Publishing
        Engine</b>), use this procedure:</p>
    <p><b><u>Prerequisites</u></b><ul id="ul_cbv_d3x_fjb">
        <li>You must have a licensed version of <b>Oxygen XML WebHelp</b> or <b>Oxygen Publishing
            Engine</b>. </li>
        <li>To install and manage <ph keyref="product"/>, you will need to choose a subscription
          plan during the installation procedure. To see the subscription plans prior to installing
          the product, go to: <xref
            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/oxygen_feedback/buy_feedback.html" format="html"
            scope="external"/>.<note conkeyref="reusables-feedback/subscription-notice"/></li>
      </ul></p>
    <p><b id="installation1"><u>Installation Procedure</u></b><ol id="ol_pwy_sjx_fjb">
        <li>Log in to your Feedback account from the <i>login page</i> (<xref
            href="https://feedback.oxygenxml.com/login" format="html" scope="external"/>). You can
          click on <uicontrol>Log in with Google</uicontrol> or <uicontrol>Log in with
            Facebook</uicontrol> to create an account using your Google or Facebook credentials, or
          click the <uicontrol>Sign Up</uicontrol> tab to create an account using your name and
          email address.<p><b>Step Result:</b> If this is your first time logging in and you have
            not yet created a site configuration, you are directed to a Welcome page. Otherwise, you
            are directed to the <uicontrol>Dashboard</uicontrol> page.</p></li>
        <li>Click the <uicontrol>Add your first site</uicontrol> button to <xref
            href="ofb-creating-site.dita">create a site configuration</xref> (if you are on the
            <uicontrol>Dashboard</uicontrol> page, click the <uicontrol>Add site</uicontrol> link in
          the top-right corner of the <xref href="ofb-dashboard.dita#ofb-dashboard/sites-pane"
              ><uicontrol>Sites</uicontrol> pane</xref>). If you have not already selected a
          subscription plan, you will be directed to a page where you can choose from several
          options.</li>
        <li>In the <uicontrol>Settings</uicontrol> page, enter a <uicontrol>Name</uicontrol> and
            <uicontrol>Description</uicontrol> for the site configuration. There are some optional
          settings that can be adjusted according to your needs. For more details, see the <xref
            href="ofb-site-settings-page.dita"/> topic. Click <uicontrol>Continue</uicontrol>.</li>
        <li>In the <uicontrol>Version</uicontrol> page, enter the <uicontrol>Base URL</uicontrol>
          for your website. You can also specify an <uicontrol>Initial version</uicontrol> if you
          want it to be something other than <i>1.0</i>. If you do not plan to have multiple
          versions, leave the version as <i>1.0</i>. For more details, see the <xref
            href="ofb-site-initial-version.dita"/> topic. Click
          <uicontrol>Continue</uicontrol>.</li>
        <li>In the <uicontrol>Installation</uicontrol> page, choose the <uicontrol>Install Feedback
            in WebHelp output generated from a command line</uicontrol> option.</li>
        <li>Create an XML file (for example, <filepath>feedback-install.xml</filepath>) on disk with
          the content generated in the <uicontrol>Installation</uicontrol> page in the admin
          UI.</li>
        <li>
          <p>Use the <codeph>webhelp.fragment.feedback</codeph> parameter to specify the path to the
            file created in the previous step. For
            example:<codeblock outputclass="">dita.bat
...[Other parameters]...
-Dwebhelp.fragment.feedback=c:\path\to\feedback-install.xml</codeblock></p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Run the transformation and deploy the WebHelp output to a web server.</p>
        </li>
      </ol></p>
  </body>
</topic>
