<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ofb-ai-threads">
    <title>Site AI Threads</title>
    <body>
        <p>The <uicontrol>AI Threads</uicontrol> page provides an overview of initial messages that
      users have sent to the AI Assistant on the current site. <xref href="ofb-team-management.dita"
        >Users with an <i>Owner</i>, <i>Admin</i>, or <i>Moderator</i> role</xref> have access to
      this page.</p>
    <section id="filtering_threads">
      <title>Filtering Threads</title>
      <p>You can filter AI threads using several options:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>You can click on the status filter buttons to view threads based on the category:<ul>
            <li><b>Useful</b> - Helpful or informative messages.</li>
            <li><b>Not Useful</b> - Messages deemed to be unhelpful.</li>
            <li><b>Inaccurate</b> - Messages flagged for containing inaccurate or irrelevant
              information.</li>
            <li><b>Error</b> - Cases where the AI Assistant failed to respond correctly.</li>
            <li><b>All</b> - Displays all messages.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>You can use the drop-down menus to the right of the filter buttons to filter threads by
          specific site versions or a time frame.</li>
        <li>You can enter keywords in the search field to search for specific content within
          threads.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="thread_indicators">
      <title>Thread Indicators</title>
      <p>Each message includes tags on the right side to indicate its assessment:</p>
      <ul>
        <li><b>Useful</b>-  The message is helpful or informative.</li>
        <li><b>Not Useful</b> - The message lacks helpful information.</li>
        <li><b>Inaccurate</b> - The message contains unrelated information.</li>
        <li><b>Error</b> - The AI Assistant encountered an issue and failed to provide a valid
          response.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="reviewing_threads">
      <title>Reviewing Threads</title>
      <p>To review an individual thread:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Locate the desired message in the list.</li>
        <li>Click the <uicontrol>View Thread</uicontrol> button next to the message.</li>
        <li>Access the full conversation to review user interactions and take appropriate
          actions.</li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    <section id="ai_assistant_conversation_details">
      <title>AI Assistant Conversation Details</title>
      <p>Clicking the <uicontrol>View Thread</uicontrol> button opens a new page that displays the
        full conversation with the AI Assistant. This page provides a detailed view of the
        interaction between the user and the AI Assistant, along with context and analysis to help
        administrators evaluate the AI Assistant's performance. Key features include:</p>
      <p id="p_fjv_5gg_pdc">
        <dl id="dl_pqz_5gg_pdc">
          <dlentry id="dlentry_qqz_5gg_pdc">
            <dt>Header Information</dt>
            <dd>The header at the top of the page contains essential details about the
                conversation:<ul id="ul_g2y_ygg_pdc">
                <li id="li_h2y_ygg_pdc"><b>Date and Time</b> - When the interaction occurred.</li>
                <li id="li_i2y_ygg_pdc"><b>Site Version</b> - The version of your site where the
                  conversation took place, allowing you to track changes across different
                  versions.</li>
              </ul></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_dls_bhg_pdc">
            <dt>Response Summary</dt>
            <dd>A quick overview of the AI Assistant's replies is displayed, breaking down the
              interaction into these categories:<ul id="ul_izw_dhg_pdc">
                <li id="li_jzw_dhg_pdc"><b>Total Responses</b> - The total number of replies from
                  the assistant.</li>
                <li id="li_kzw_dhg_pdc"><b>Useful Responses</b> - Messages categorized as helpful or
                  informative.</li>
                <li id="li_lzw_dhg_pdc"><b>Not Useful Responses</b> - Messages that lacked helpful
                  information.</li>
                <li id="li_mzw_dhg_pdc"><b>Inaccurate Responses</b> - Replies containing unrelated
                  information.</li>
                <li id="li_nzw_dhg_pdc"><b>Errors</b> - Instances where the AI Assistant encountered
                  an issue and failed to provide a valid response.</li>
              </ul></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_t1g_fhg_pdc">
            <dt>Interaction Insights</dt>
            <dd>Gain a deeper understanding of the user's experience:<ul id="ul_djr_ghg_pdc">
                <li id="li_ejr_ghg_pdc"><b>User Input</b> - Review the questions or statements
                  provided by the user.</li>
                <li id="li_fjr_ghg_pdc"><b>AI Responses</b> - See the AI Assistant’s replies and
                  evaluate their accuracy and relevance.</li>
                <li id="li_gjr_ghg_pdc"><b>Referenced Documentation</b> - Identify the topics from
                  your documentation that the AI Assistant cited in its responses.</li>
              </ul></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_oy3_3hg_pdc">
            <dt>Actionable Insights</dt>
            <dd>Use this detailed view to assess the quality of the AI Assistant's performance,
              identify trends in user queries, and improve responses by updating your documentation
              or AI settings.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
    </section>
    </body>
</topic>
