<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ofbENT-set_up_oauth">
  <title>How to Set up OAuth Authentication</title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_ykw_dgk_54b">By default, <term>OAuth</term> login support is disabled. To enable it for Google or Facebook
      credentials, use the appropriate procedure below.</p>
    <note type="notice" id="note_zkw_dgk_54b">If your server is behind a proxy, you must first <xref
        href="ofbENT-configure_http_proxy.dita">configure the HTTP proxy</xref>.</note>
    <section id="section_fkg_fbg_lmb">
      <title>Google</title>
      <p id="p_alw_dgk_54b">
        <ol id="ol_v3p_fbg_lmb">
          <li id="li_blw_dgk_54b">Register <ph keyref="product"/> with Google:<ol id="ol_glp_gbg_lmb">
              <li id="li_clw_dgk_54b">To use Google’s OAuth 2.0 authentication system for login, you must set up a
                project in the Google API Console to obtain OAuth 2.0 credentials.</li>
              <li id="li_dlw_dgk_54b">Follow the instructions on the <xref
                  href="https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/OpenIDConnect"
                  format="html" scope="external">OpenID Connect</xref> page, starting in the
                section, "Setting up OAuth 2.0".<p id="p_elw_dgk_54b"><b>Step Result:</b> You should have a new OAuth
                  Client with credentials consisting of a Client ID and a Client Secret.</p></li>
              <li id="li_flw_dgk_54b">Configure the <ph keyref="product"/> server to point to your newly registered
                application by adding the <codeph>oauth.google.client.clientId</codeph> and
                  <codeph>oauth.google.client.clientSecret</codeph> properties in the
                  <filepath>config/feedback-oauth.properties</filepath>
                  file:<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_glw_dgk_54b">#### GOOGLE ####
oauth.google.client.clientId=google-client-id
oauth.google.client.clientSecret=google-client-secret</codeblock><note id="note_hlw_dgk_54b">You need to
                  substitute your <i>client ID</i> and <i>client secret</i> for the placeholder text
                  shown in the example above.</note></li>
            </ol></li>
          <li id="li_ilw_dgk_54b">Set the redirect URI. In the <uicontrol>Set a redirect URI</uicontrol> sub-section,
            ensure that the <uicontrol>Authorized redirect URIs</uicontrol> field is set to
              <codeph>https://&lt;your-app-base-url>/login/google</codeph>.<p id="p_jlw_dgk_54b">The OAuth redirect URI
              is the path in the application that the end-user is redirected back to after they have
              authenticated with Google and have granted access to the application on the <i> OAuth
                consent screen</i> page.</p></li>
        </ol>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_z2n_3cg_lmb">
      <title>Facebook</title>
      <p id="p_klw_dgk_54b">
        <ol id="ol_afn_3cg_lmb">
          <li id="li_llw_dgk_54b">Register <ph keyref="product"/> with Facebook:<ol id="ol_bfn_3cg_lmb">
              <li id="li_mlw_dgk_54b">Configure your application’s <i>client ID</i> and <i>client secret</i> (you can
                obtain them by registering your application with Facebook at <xref
                  href="https://developers.facebook.com/" format="html" scope="external"/>).</li>
              <li id="li_nlw_dgk_54b">Add the <codeph>oauth.facebook.client.clientId</codeph> and
                  <codeph>oauth.facebook.client.clientSecret</codeph> properties in the
                  <filepath>config/feedback-oauth.properties</filepath>
                  file:<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_olw_dgk_54b">#### FACEBOOK ####
oauth.facebook.client.clientId=facebook-client-id
oauth.facebook.client.clientSecret=facebook-client-secret</codeblock><note id="note_plw_dgk_54b">You
                  need to substitute your <i>client ID</i> and <i>client secret</i> for the
                  placeholder text shown in the example above.</note></li>
            </ol></li>
          <li id="li_qlw_dgk_54b">Set the redirect URI:<ol id="ol_dbj_wcg_lmb">
              <li id="li_rlw_dgk_54b">In the <xref href="https://developers.facebook.com/apps" format="html"
                  scope="external">App Dashboard</xref>, choose your app and scroll to <b>Add a
                  Product</b>.</li>
              <li id="li_slw_dgk_54b">Click <b>Set Up</b> in the <b>Facebook Login</b> card.</li>
              <li id="li_tlw_dgk_54b">Select <b>Settings</b> in the left side navigation panel and under <b>Client OAuth
                  Settings</b>, enter your redirect URL in the <b>Valid OAuth Redirect URIs</b>
                field for successful authorization.</li>
              <li id="li_ulw_dgk_54b">Set the <uicontrol>Valid OAuth Redirect URIs</uicontrol> field to
                  <codeph>https://&lt;your-app-base-url>/login/facebook</codeph>.</li>
            </ol></li>
        </ol>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="ofbENT-set_up_basic_auth.dita"/>
      <link href="ofbENT-how_to_configure_LDAP.dita"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
