<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ofbENT-configure_http_proxy">
  <title>How to Configure an HTTP Proxy</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <keyword outputclass="label">Site Configuration</keyword>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_clq_4fr_hwb">To configure an HTTP Proxy for the <b>Oxygen Feedback</b> or <b>Oxygen
        Text Search Service</b> instances, use the appropriate procedure below:</p>
    <p>
      <dl id="dl_j4h_15n_5wb">
        <dlentry id="dlentry_k4h_15n_5wb">
          <dt>Oxygen Feedback</dt>
          <dd>
            <ol id="ol_s2m_czf_lmb">
              <li id="li_ckw_dgk_54b">Edit the
                  <filepath>$OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_INSTALL_DIR/oxygen-feedback-home/config/feedback-server.properties</filepath>
                file.</li>
              <li id="li_dkw_dgk_54b">Set the following
                values:<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_ekw_dgk_54b"># The hostname of the HTTP proxy server (without protocol and port number)
# Example: proxy.example.net
http.proxyHost=

# The port number of the HTTP proxy server, property is optional and defaults to 80 if not provided
http.proxyPort=

# A list of hosts that should be reached directly, bypassing the proxy. 
# This is a list of patterns separated by '|'. The patterns may start or end with a '*' for wildcards. 
# Any host matching one of these patterns will be reached through a direct connection instead of through a proxy.
# Example: ”localhost|host.example.com”
http.nonProxyHosts

# The hostname of the HTTPS proxy server (without protocol and port number)
# Example: proxy.example.net
https.proxyHost=

# The port number of the HTTPS proxy server
# https.proxyPort=

# The hostname of the SOCKS proxy server
# socksProxyHost=

# The port number of the SOCKS proxy server
# socksProxyPort=</codeblock></li>
            </ol>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_i24_b5n_5wb">
          <dt>Oxygen Text Search Service</dt>
          <dd>
            <ol id="ol_uzj_c5n_5wb">
              <li id="li_vzj_c5n_5wb">Edit the
                  <filepath>$OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_INSTALL_DIR/docker-compose.yml</filepath> file.</li>
              <li id="li_wzj_c5n_5wb">Configure the following environment variables for the
                  <b>Oxygen Text Search Service</b> container:<ul id="ul_rdg_yhl_5wb">
                  <li id="li_xzj_c5n_5wb"><codeph>http.proxyHost</codeph> - The host name of the
                    HTTP proxy server, without protocol and port number (e.g.
                      <codeph>proxy.example.net</codeph>).</li>
                  <li id="li_yzj_c5n_5wb"><codeph>http.proxyPort</codeph> - The port number of the
                    HTTP proxy server (this environment variable is optional and defaults to
                      <codeph>80</codeph> if not provided).</li>
                  <li id="li_zzj_c5n_5wb"><codeph>https.proxyHost</codeph> - The host name of the
                    HTTPS proxy server, without protocol and port number (e.g.
                      <codeph>proxy.example.net</codeph>).</li>
                  <li id="li_a1k_c5n_5wb"><codeph>https.proxyPort</codeph> - The port number of the
                    HTTPS proxy server (this environment variable is optional and defaults to
                      <codeph>443</codeph> if not provided).</li>
                  <li id="li_b1k_c5n_5wb"><codeph>http.nonProxyHosts</codeph> - A list of hosts that
                    should be reached directly, bypassing the proxy. This is a list of patterns
                    separated by <codeph>|</codeph>. The patterns may start or end with a
                      <codeph>*</codeph> for wildcards. Any host matching one of these patterns will
                    be reached through a direct connection instead of through a proxy (e.g.
                      <codeph>localhost|host.example.com</codeph>).</li>
                </ul></li>
            </ol>
            <note id="note_mbj_4rn_hzb">When a proxy server is configured for the <b>Oxygen Text
                Search Service</b> container, the hostname of the URL configured in the <xref
                href="ofbENT-installation-docker.dita#fb-install-steps-docker/set_up_license"
                  ><codeph>semantic.search.configuration.server.url</codeph> property</xref> should
              be listed in the <codeph>http.nonProxyHosts</codeph> list.</note>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
