<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ofbENT-how_to_install">
  <title>How to Install <ph keyref="product"/> Service on Linux</title>
  <topic id="fb-requirements">
    <title>Requirements</title>
    <body>
      <p id="p_pdw_dgk_54b">
        <dl id="dl_qdw_dgk_54b">
          <dlentry id="dlentry_rdw_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Operating System</dt>
            <dd>
              <ul id="ul_rk2_c3g_smb">
                <li id="li_sdw_dgk_54b">Ubuntu 18 is recommended since it has been thoroughly tested </li>
              </ul>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_tdw_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Java</dt>
            <dd>
              <ul id="ul_wfs_b3g_smb">
                <li id="li_udw_dgk_54b">JRE version 11</li>
              </ul>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_vdw_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Database</dt>
            <dd>
              <ul id="ul_xdm_t2f_lmb">
                <li id="li_wdw_dgk_54b">PostgreSQL 11, 12</li>
                <li id="li_xdw_dgk_54b">MySQL 8.0</li>
              </ul>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_ydw_dgk_54b">
            <dt>CPU</dt>
            <dd>
              <ul id="ul_fnd_b3g_smb">
                <li id="li_zdw_dgk_54b">2 virtual cores</li>
              </ul>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_a2w_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Memory</dt>
            <dd>
              <ul id="ul_u5l_13g_smb">
                <li id="li_b2w_dgk_54b">2 GB RAM</li>
              </ul>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_c2w_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Storage</dt>
            <dd>
              <ul id="ul_cd5_zhg_smb">
                <li id="li_d2w_dgk_54b">20 GB disk storage</li>
              </ul>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_e2w_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Browser</dt>
            <dd>
              <ul id="ul_cts_cgf_lmb">
                <li id="li_f2w_dgk_54b">Google Chrome 78.0 [recommended for optimal performance and user
                  experience]</li>
                <li id="li_g2w_dgk_54b">Mozilla Firefox 70.0</li>
                <li id="li_h2w_dgk_54b">Microsoft Internet Explorer 11</li>
                <li id="li_i2w_dgk_54b">Microsoft Edge 44</li>
                <li id="li_j2w_dgk_54b">OS X Safari 13</li>
                <li id="li_k2w_dgk_54b">Chrome for Android 78.0 [mobile devices]</li>
                <li id="li_l2w_dgk_54b">Safari Mobile iOS 13 [mobile devices]</li>
              </ul>
              <note type="tip" id="note_m2w_dgk_54b">For more details, see: <xref href="ofb-browser-compatibility.dita"
              />.</note>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
        <note type="attention" id="note_n2w_dgk_54b">It is recommended to create a dedicated user to configure and run the
          service (for example, named <b>feedback</b>).</note>
      </p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  
  <topic id="fb-install-steps">
    <title>Installation</title>
    <body>
      
      
      <section id="section_lzw_rlz_mmb">
        <title>1. Download Kit</title>
        <p id="p_o2w_dgk_54b">Download the <xref href="http://oxygenxml.com/oxygen_feedback_enterprise/download.html"
            format="html" scope="external"><b>Oxygen Feedback Enterprise</b> installation
          kit</xref>.</p>
      </section>
      <section id="section_bnt_t2g_smb">
        <title>2. Create the feedback user </title>
        <p id="p_p2w_dgk_54b">Sample code:</p>
        <p id="p_q2w_dgk_54b">
          <codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_r2w_dgk_54b">useradd feedback</codeblock>
        </p>
      </section>
      <section id="section_ny5_tlz_mmb">
        <title>3. Create Installation Directory</title>
        <p id="p_s2w_dgk_54b">Create an installation directory (subsequently referred to as
            <codeph>OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_INSTALL_DIR</codeph>) and unzip the downloaded kit to this new
          directory. The application files are stored in this directory.</p>
        <p id="p_t2w_dgk_54b">Sample code to create the install
          directory:<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_u2w_dgk_54b">export OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_INSTALL_DIR=/home/feedback/oxygen-feedback
sudo mkdir $OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_INSTALL_DIR
sudo chown feedback: $OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_INSTALL_DIR</codeblock></p>
        <p id="p_v2w_dgk_54b">Sample code to extract the archive
          content:<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_w2w_dgk_54b">cd $OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_INSTALL_DIR
# Copy the downloaded archive here
unzip oxygen-feedback-enterprise.zip</codeblock></p>
        <p id="p_x2w_dgk_54b"><b>Step Result:</b> A new directory (for example, named
            <filepath>oxygen-feedback-1.3</filepath>) is created with the extracted archive's
          content, so the path becomes
            <filepath>[OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_INSTALL_DIR]/oxygen-feedback-1.3</filepath>.</p>
      </section>
      <section id="section_jlx_ylz_mmb">
        <title>4. [Optional] Create Separate Home Directory (for Config and Data)</title>
        <p id="p_y2w_dgk_54b">By default, the Feedback home directory value is the installation directory, but if you
          want to define a custom value, you can add the custom path to
            <filepath>feedback-home.properties</filepath> or pass it via the
            <codeph>-Dfeedback.home</codeph> command-line argument. The home directory stores the
          configuration and other data. It is recommended to have it separate from the installation
          directory because you can manage updates more easily.</p>
        <note id="note_z2w_dgk_54b">This directory is subsequently referred to as
            <codeph>OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_HOME_DIR</codeph>. </note>
        <p id="p_afw_dgk_54b">
          <ol id="ol_zn5_znw_mmb">
            <li id="li_bfw_dgk_54b">Edit
              <filepath>feedback-home.properties</filepath>:<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_cfw_dgk_54b">sudo vi $OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_INSTALL_DIR/oxygen-feedback-1.3/feedback-home.properties</codeblock></li>
            <li id="li_dfw_dgk_54b">Set the <codeph>feedback.home</codeph>
              property:<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_efw_dgk_54b"># Oxygen Feedback home path property (by default, the current installation directory)
feedback.home=&lt;oxygen-feedback-user-home-dir>/oxygen-feedback-home</codeblock></li>
            <li id="li_ffw_dgk_54b">Move the <i>config</i> and <i>data</i> directories to the Feedback home directory.
              For
              example:<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_gfw_dgk_54b">export OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_HOME_DIR=/home/feedback/oxygen-feedback-home
cp -R $OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_INSTALL_DIR/oxygen-feedback-1.3/config $OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_HOME_DIR
cp -R $OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_INSTALL_DIR/oxygen-feedback-1.3/data $OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_HOME_DIR</codeblock></li>
          </ol>
        </p>
      </section>
      <section id="section_axp_cmz_mmb">
        <title>5. Set Service Port</title>
        <p id="p_hfw_dgk_54b">By default, the service uses the port 8080. To change the port that the service runs on,
          open <filepath>$OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_HOME_DIR/config/feedback-server.properties</filepath> and
          set the <b>http.port</b> property to your desired value.</p>
        <p id="p_ifw_dgk_54b">For example:<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_jfw_dgk_54b">http.port=8081</codeblock></p>
      </section>
      <section id="section_mdf_gmz_mmb">
        <title>6. Set Up Database</title>
        <p id="p_kfw_dgk_54b">MySQL 8.0 and PostgreSQL 11 or 12 are supported.</p>
        <p id="p_lfw_dgk_54b"><b><u>MySQL</u></b></p>
        <p conkeyref="reusables-feedback/MySQL" id="p_mfw_dgk_54b"/>
        <p id="p_nfw_dgk_54b"><b><u>PostgreSQL</u></b></p>
        <p conkeyref="reusables-feedback/PostgreSQL" id="p_ofw_dgk_54b"/>
      </section>
      <section id="set_up_license">
        <title>7. Set Up License</title>
        <p id="p_pfw_dgk_54b">Set up the license for Feedback Enterprise:<ol id="ol_szl_pt2_nmb">
          <li id="li_qfw_dgk_54b">Go to the <codeph>OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_HOME_DIR</codeph> (or to the Feedback server
              installation directory) and create a new file called
                <filepath>licensekey.txt</filepath>.<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_rfw_dgk_54b">cd $OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_HOME_DIR
touch licensekey.txt</codeblock></li>
          <li id="li_sfw_dgk_54b">Copy and paste your license key inside the <filepath>licensekey.txt</filepath> file
              using a text editor or
              use:<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_tfw_dgk_54b">cat >> licensekey.txt
# Paste license
# Press CTRL-D</codeblock></li>
        </ol></p>
      </section>
      <section id="section_fh1_nmz_mmb">
        <title>8. Set Up Application Properties</title>
        <p id="p_ufw_dgk_54b">Set up the application properties by opening
            <filepath>$OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_HOME_DIR/config/feedback-application.properties</filepath>
          and setting the following:</p>
        <p id="p_vfw_dgk_54b">
          <dl id="dl_wfw_dgk_54b">
            <dlentry id="dlentry_xfw_dgk_54b">
              <dt>Application Host URL</dt>
              <dd>
                <p id="p_yfw_dgk_54b">The server URL where the application will be deployed. It must contain the protocol
                  and port and it will be used in the email notifications:</p>
                <codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_zfw_dgk_54b">feedback.server.host.url=http://example.com</codeblock>
              </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry id="dlentry_agw_dgk_54b">
              <dt>Image Upload Configuration</dt>
              <dd>
                <p id="p_bgw_dgk_54b">Image upload allowed extensions:</p>
                <codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_cgw_dgk_54b">feedback.upload.extensions=jpg,jpeg,png,gif</codeblock>
              </dd>
              <dd>
                <p id="p_dgw_dgk_54b">Sets the maximum allowed size of an image in KB.</p>
                <codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_egw_dgk_54b">feedback.max.file.upload.size=2048</codeblock>
              </dd>
              <dd>
                <p id="p_fgw_dgk_54b">Set it to <i>true</i> for images to be validated (extension and size) before
                  being uploaded or <i>false</i> to not validate them.</p>
                <codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_ggw_dgk_54b">feedback.image.validation=true</codeblock>
              </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry id="dlentry_hgw_dgk_54b">
              <dt>Comment Configuration</dt>
              <dd>
                <p id="p_igw_dgk_54b">Sets the limit of how many characters a comment can have.</p>
                <codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_jgw_dgk_54b">feedback.max.comment.character.size=10000</codeblock>
                <p id="p_kgw_dgk_54b">Sets the number of days that a deleted comment can be restored. After that, the
                  comment is permanently deleted.</p>
                <codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_lgw_dgk_54b">feedback.comment.expiration.period=30</codeblock>
              </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry id="dlentry_mgw_dgk_54b">
              <dt>Accounts Management Configuration</dt>
              <dd>
                <p id="p_ngw_dgk_54b">Sets the number of hours that a newly created account can be activated before it
                  expires.</p>
                <codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_ogw_dgk_54b">feedback.account.expiration.period=24</codeblock>
                <p id="p_pgw_dgk_54b">Sets the number of days that a deleted account can be recovered.</p>
                <codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_qgw_dgk_54b">feedback.account.termination.period=14</codeblock>
              </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry id="dlentry_rgw_dgk_54b">
              <dt>Role Change Settings</dt>
              <dd>
                <p id="p_sgw_dgk_54b">Sets the number of hours that a site ownership transfer is valid. If the transfer
                  is not accepted within that time, it will automatically be cancelled:</p>
                <codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_tgw_dgk_54b">feedback.valid.transfer.site.ownership.period=24</codeblock>
                <p id="p_ugw_dgk_54b">Sets the number of days that a role change is pending. If not accepted within that
                  time, it will automatically be cancelled.</p>
                <codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_vgw_dgk_54b">feedback.valid.role.change.period=1</codeblock>
              </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry id="dlentry_wgw_dgk_54b">
              <dt>Cross-Domain Cookies Settings</dt>
              <dd>
                <p id="p_xgw_dgk_54b">Controls whether or not the Feedback server sets the
                    <codeph>SameSite=None</codeph> attribute on the cookies sent to the client.</p>
                <p id="p_ygw_dgk_54b">If the application is configured to run on HTTP, then this property should be set
                  to <b>false</b> for the login to work
                  properly.<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_zgw_dgk_54b">feedback.cookie.samesite.none=true</codeblock></p>
              </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry id="dlentry_ahw_dgk_54b">
              <dt>Basic Authentication</dt>
              <dd>
                <p id="p_bhw_dgk_54b">Controls whether or not <xref href="ofbENT-set_up_basic_auth.dita"><i>Basic
                      Authentication</i></xref> is
                  enabled.<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_chw_dgk_54b">feedback.basic.authentication.enabled=true</codeblock></p>
              </dd>
            </dlentry>
          </dl>
        </p>
      </section>
      <section id="section_vkr_pmz_mmb">
        <title>9. Set Up Email Notifications</title>
        <p id="p_dhw_dgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> requires that you configure an email server for the purposes of
          sending account confirmation emails, password reset emails, or comment activity
          emails.</p>
        <p id="p_ehw_dgk_54b">To configure the email server, open
            <filepath>$OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_HOME_DIR/config/feedback-mail.properties</filepath> and set
          the following:</p>
        <p id="p_fhw_dgk_54b">
          <dl id="dl_ghw_dgk_54b">
            <dlentry id="dlentry_hhw_dgk_54b">
              <dt>Configure the SMTP Outgoing Server</dt>
              <dd>
                <p id="p_ihw_dgk_54b">The SMTP name:</p>
                <codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_jhw_dgk_54b">spring.mail.host=smtp.example.com</codeblock>
                <p id="p_khw_dgk_54b">The SMTP port:</p>
                <codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_lhw_dgk_54b">spring.mail.port=25</codeblock>
              </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry id="dlentry_mhw_dgk_54b">
              <dt>Configure the From Email Address</dt>
              <dd>
                <p id="p_nhw_dgk_54b">The name that will be displayed in the <b>From</b> field for email messages sent by
                  this server:</p>
                <codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_ohw_dgk_54b">feedback.email.sender=company@sender.example.com</codeblock>
              </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry id="dlentry_phw_dgk_54b">
              <dt>Configure SMTP Authentication</dt>
              <dd>
                <p id="p_qhw_dgk_54b">The user name used in the authenticated SMTP:</p>
                <codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_rhw_dgk_54b">spring.mail.username=&lt;user></codeblock>
                <p id="p_shw_dgk_54b">The password used in the authenticated SMTP:</p>
                <codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_thw_dgk_54b">spring.mail.password=&lt;password></codeblock>
              </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry id="dlentry_uhw_dgk_54b">
              <dt>Configure STARTTLS Protocol Command</dt>
              <dd>
                <p id="p_vhw_dgk_54b">If <b>true</b>, it enables the use of the STARTTLS command (if supported by the
                  server) to switch the connection to a TLS-protected connection before issuing any
                  login commands. If the server does not support STARTTLS, the connection continues
                  without the use of TLS:</p>
                <codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_whw_dgk_54b">spring.mail.properties.mail.smtp.starttls.enable=true</codeblock>
                <p id="p_xhw_dgk_54b">If <b>true</b>, it requires the use of the STARTTLS command. If the server does not
                  support the STARTTLS command, or the command fails, the connect method will fail.
                  The default is <b>false</b>.</p>
                <codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_yhw_dgk_54b">spring.mail.properties.mail.smtp.starttls.required=false</codeblock>
              </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry id="dlentry_zhw_dgk_54b">
              <dt>Configure SSL Authentication</dt>
              <dd>
                <p id="p_a3w_dgk_54b">If set to <b>true</b>, it uses SSL to connect and uses the SSL port by default. The
                  default is <b>false</b> for the SMTP protocol and <b>true</b> for the SMTPS
                  protocol:</p>
                <codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_b3w_dgk_54b">spring.mail.properties.mail.smtp.ssl.enable=true</codeblock>
                <p id="p_c3w_dgk_54b">Specifies the port to connect to when using the specified socket factory. If not
                  set, the default port will be used.</p>
                <codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_d3w_dgk_54b">spring.mail.properties.mail.smtp.ssl.socketFactory.port=465</codeblock>
              </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry id="dlentry_e3w_dgk_54b">
              <dt>Advanced Properties</dt>
              <dd>
                <p id="p_f3w_dgk_54b">The default message encoding:</p>
                <codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_g3w_dgk_54b">spring.mail.default-encoding=UTF-8</codeblock>
                <p id="p_h3w_dgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> uses JavaMail for sending emails and it allows additional
                  properties to be set using the following pattern:</p>
                <codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_i3w_dgk_54b">spring.mail.properties.{JAVA.MAIL.PROPERTY}=</codeblock>
                <p id="p_j3w_dgk_54b">See all available properties in the JavaMail documentation at: <xref
                  href="https://javaee.github.io/javamail/docs/api/com/sun/mail/smtp/package-summary.html#properties"
                  format="html" scope="external"
                />.<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_k3w_dgk_54b">spring.mail.properties.*=</codeblock></p>
              </dd>
            </dlentry>
          </dl>
        </p>
      </section>
      <section id="section_lwc_24s_zmb">
        <title>10. [Optional] Configure LDAP Authentication</title>
        <p id="p_l3w_dgk_54b">Optionally, configure LDAP authentication for <ph keyref="product"/>:<ol
            id="ul_nsj_j4s_zmb">
            <li id="li_m3w_dgk_54b">Enable LDAP authentication support by editing the
                <filepath>$OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_HOME_DIR/config/feedback-ldap.properties</filepath> file
              and set the <codeph>feedback.ldap.enabled</codeph> property to <b>true</b>.</li>
            <li id="li_n3w_dgk_54b">Configure the URL for your LDAP server by setting the
                <codeph>feedback.ldap.serverUrl</codeph> property. For
              example:<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_o3w_dgk_54b">feedback.ldap.serverUrl=ldap://ldap.example.com:33389/dc=myco,dc=org</codeblock></li>
            <li id="li_p3w_dgk_54b">
              <p id="p_q3w_dgk_54b">Specify the pattern for the search filter used to identify a user entity on the
                LDAP server by setting the <codeph>feedback.ldap.userSearchFilter</codeph> property.
                For
                example:<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_r3w_dgk_54b">(|(mail={0})(uid={0}))</codeblock></p>
              <p id="p_s3w_dgk_54b">The substituted parameter is the user's login name. This example pattern enables
                user authentication with both the username and email address.</p>
            </li>
            <li id="li_t3w_dgk_54b">Specify the name of the email attribute for the LDAP user entity by setting the
                <codeph>feedback.ldap.emailAttribute</codeph> property.<note type="important" id="note_u3w_dgk_54b">For
                the authentication to work, it is mandatory that your LDAP users entities have an
                associated email address.</note></li>
            <li id="li_v3w_dgk_54b">Specify whether or not new account registration is allowed by setting the
                <codeph>feedback.ldap.userRegistrationEnabled</codeph> property. For example, to
              disable new account registration (hides the <uicontrol>Sign Up</uicontrol> form in the
              login
                page):<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_w3w_dgk_54b">feedback.ldap.userRegistrationEnabled=false</codeblock><note id="note_x3w_dgk_54b">The
                  <codeph>feedback.ldap.userRegistrationEnabled</codeph> property does not disable
                the possibility of authenticating using a local (DB) account. It only hides the
                  <uicontrol>Sign Up</uicontrol> form, thus inhibiting the possibility of creating
                new local user accounts.</note></li>
          </ol></p>
        <p id="p_y3w_dgk_54b"><b>Example of the Configuration Properties File</b></p>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_z3w_dgk_54b">###########################################################################
# Stores the configuration properties for the LDAP authentication support #
###########################################################################

# Flag used to enable the LDAP authentication support.
feedback.ldap.enabled=true# Specifies the LDAP server URL.

# For example: "ldap://ldap.example.com:33389/dc=myco,dc=org".
feedback.ldap.serverUrl=ldap://ldap.example.com:33389/dc=myco,dc=org

# The LDAP filter used to search for users. 
# For example "(uid={0})". The substituted parameter is the user's login name.
feedback.ldap.userSearchFilter=(|(mail={0})(uid={0}))

# The name of the email attribute of the user entity.
feedback.ldap.emailAttribute=mail

# Property for choosing whether or not to enable new account registration
feedback.ldap.userRegistrationEnabled=true</codeblock>
      </section>
      <section id="section_kxq_rmz_mmb">
        <title>11. Start Oxygen Feedback</title>
        <p id="p_ajw_dgk_54b">Run <codeph>start.sh</codeph> (e.g.
            <codeph>$OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_INSTALL_DIR/oxygen-feedback-1.3/bin/start.sh</codeph>) to start
            <ph keyref="product"/>. Go to <filepath>http://localhost:8080</filepath> (change the
          port if you set it to something else) to launch <ph keyref="product"/> in your
          browser.</p>
      </section>
      <section id="section_ump_tmz_mmb">
        <title>12. Create First Administrator Account</title>
        <p id="p_bjw_dgk_54b">Create your first administrator account:<ol id="ol_wbc_vwf_lmb">
          <li id="li_cjw_dgk_54b">Go to the location where the Feedback server is deployed (e.g.
            <filepath>http://localhost:8080</filepath>).</li>
          <li id="li_djw_dgk_54b">In the resulting setup page, define your first platform admin.</li>
          <li id="li_ejw_dgk_54b">Enter the required information and click the <uicontrol>Create</uicontrol>
            button.<note id="note_fjw_dgk_54b">The setup page is only visible the first time the application is started.
              After the first platform admin is defined, that page will no longer be
              available.</note></li>
        </ol></p>
      </section>
    </body>
    <related-links>
      <linklist>
        <title>Related Information:</title>
        <link href="ofbENT-how-to-start-as-linux-service.dita"/>
        <link href="ofbENT-configure_http_proxy.dita"/>
        <link href="ofbENT-how_to_configure_LDAP.dita"/>
        <link href="ofbENT-set_up_oauth.dita"/>
        <link href="ofbENT-access_instance_logs.dita"/>
        <link href="ofbENT-gzip-compression.dita"/>
        <link href="ofbENT-https-procedure.dita"/>
      </linklist>
    </related-links>
  </topic>
</topic>
