<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ofbENT-how-to-configure-OTSS">
  <title>How to Configure Connection to Oxygen Text Search Service</title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_cmq_4s2_5wb">The connection to the <b>Oxygen Text Search Service</b> can be configured
      in the
        <filepath>$OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_INSTALL_DIR/oxygen-feedback-home/config/feedback-text-search.properties</filepath>
      file:<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne">###################################################################
# Stores the configuration properties for the Text Search support #
###################################################################

# Flag used to enable the Text Search support.
feedback.text.search.enabled=true

# Specifies the Oxygen Text Search server URL 
feedback.text.search.serverUrl=http://oxygen-text-search-service:8888/

#The list of elements (by tag or class name) to be excluded from indexing.
feedback.text.search.indexingIgnoredElements=div.ignore,nav.wh_tools,footer,header.wh_header,div.wh_publication_toc,div.wh_topic_toc,div.wh_child_links,div.related_link,div.wh_copyright_information,a.sr-only-focusable,span.search_input_text</codeblock></p>
    <p id="p_s2n_xs2_5wb">This file can be used to configure the following:<ul id="ul_o1t_ys2_5wb">
        <li id="li_p1t_ys2_5wb">Whether the OTSS connection is enabled or disabled. </li>
        <li id="li_myp_zs2_5wb">The URL of the OTSS instance.<note id="note_bjc_zwj_5wb"> The
              <b>Oxygen Feedback</b> and <b>Oxygen Text Search Service</b> containers are configured
            in the same Docker Compose file, which means they will join the same Docker network at
            start-up. Each container is both reachable by other containers on that network, and
            discoverable by them at a host name identical to the container name.</note><note
            id="note_mqz_g1k_5wb">If the <b>Oxygen Feedback</b> instance is configured to use an
            HTTP Proxy, the host name of the <b>Oxygen Text Search Service</b> instance should be
            configured to be reached directly, bypassing the proxy. See also: <xref
              href="ofbENT-configure_http_proxy.dita"/>.</note></li>
        <li id="li_rh5_zs2_5wb">The list of elements (by tag or class name) to be excluded from
          indexing.</li>
      </ul></p>
  </body>
</topic>