<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ofbENT-how_to_configure_LDAP">
  <title>How to Set up LDAP Authentication</title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_jkw_dgk_54b">To configure LDAP authentication for <ph keyref="product"/>:<ol id="ul_nsj_j4s_zmb">
        <li id="li_kkw_dgk_54b">Enable LDAP authentication support by editing the
            <filepath>$OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_HOME_DIR/config/feedback-ldap.properties</filepath> file and
          set the <codeph>feedback.ldap.enabled</codeph> property to <b>true</b>.</li>
        <li id="li_lkw_dgk_54b">Configure the URL for your LDAP server by setting the
            <codeph>feedback.ldap.serverUrl</codeph> property. For
          example:<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_mkw_dgk_54b">feedback.ldap.serverUrl=ldap://ldap.example.com:33389/dc=myco,dc=org</codeblock></li>
        <li id="li_nkw_dgk_54b">
          <p id="p_okw_dgk_54b">Specify the pattern for the search filter used to identify a user entity on the LDAP
            server by setting the <codeph>feedback.ldap.userSearchFilter</codeph> property. For
            example:<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_pkw_dgk_54b">(|(mail={0})(uid={0}))</codeblock></p>
          <p id="p_qkw_dgk_54b">The substituted parameter is the user's login name. This example pattern enables user
            authentication with both the username and email address.</p>
        </li>
        <li id="li_rkw_dgk_54b">Specify the name of the email attribute for the LDAP user entity by setting the
            <codeph>feedback.ldap.emailAttribute</codeph> property.<note type="important" id="note_skw_dgk_54b">For the
            authentication to work, it is mandatory that your LDAP users entities have an associated
            email address.</note></li>
        <li id="li_tkw_dgk_54b">Specify whether or not new account registration is allowed by setting the
            <codeph>feedback.ldap.userRegistrationEnabled</codeph> property. For example, to disable
          new account registration (hides the <uicontrol>Sign Up</uicontrol> form in the login
            page):<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_ukw_dgk_54b">feedback.ldap.userRegistrationEnabled=false</codeblock><note id="note_vkw_dgk_54b">The
              <codeph>feedback.ldap.userRegistrationEnabled</codeph> property does not disable the
            possibility of authenticating using a local (DB) account. It only hides the
              <uicontrol>Sign Up</uicontrol> form, thus inhibiting the possibility of creating new
            local user accounts.</note></li>
      </ol></p>
    <p id="p_wkw_dgk_54b"><b>Example of the Configuration Properties
      File</b><codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_xkw_dgk_54b">###########################################################################
# Stores the configuration properties for the LDAP authentication support #
###########################################################################

# Flag used to enable the LDAP authentication support.
feedback.ldap.enabled=true# Specifies the LDAP server URL.

# For example: "ldap://ldap.example.com:33389/dc=myco,dc=org".
feedback.ldap.serverUrl=ldap://ldap.example.com:33389/dc=myco,dc=org

# The LDAP filter used to search for users. 
# For example "(uid={0})". The substituted parameter is the user's login name.
feedback.ldap.userSearchFilter=(|(mail={0})(uid={0}))

# The name of the email attribute of the user entity.
feedback.ldap.emailAttribute=mail

# Property for choosing whether or not to enable new account registration
feedback.ldap.userRegistrationEnabled=true</codeblock></p>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="ofbENT-set_up_oauth.dita"/>
      <link href="ofbENT-set_up_basic_auth.dita"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
