<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ofbENT-database-setup-otss">
  <title>How to Set Up the Database for Oxygen Text Search Service</title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_gjw_dgk_54b">Supported databases:<ul id="ul_rrt_djm_dmb">
      <li id="li_ijw_dgk_54b">PostgreSQL 11</li>
      <li id="li_jjw_dgk_54b">PostgreSQL 12</li>
    </ul></p>
    <p>To connect <b>Oxygen Text Search Service</b> to the PostgreSQL database, follow these
      steps:</p>
    <ol id="ol_ugf_skt_5wb">
      <li>Create a database user that will be used by <b>Oxygen Text Search Service</b> to connect
        to the database. For example,
          feedback_db_user:<pre id="pre_vgf_skt_5wb">CREATE USER feedback_db_user WITH PASSWORD 'password';</pre><p>For
          more details, see: <xref href="https://www.postgresql.org/docs/12/sql-createuser.html"
            format="html" scope="external"/>.</p></li>
      <li>Create the database where <b>Oxygen Text Search Service</b> will store its data. For
        example, <codeph>otss_db</codeph>:
          <pre id="pre_wgf_skt_5wb">CREATE DATABASE otss_db ENCODING='UTF8' LC_COLLATE='C' LC_CTYPE='C' TEMPLATE='template0';</pre><p>The
          database must have the encoding set of UTF8. For more details, see: <xref
            href="https://www.postgresql.org/docs/12/sql-createdatabase.html" format="html"
            scope="external"/>.</p></li>
      <li>The user needs to have permission to connect to the database, create and populate the
        tables, etc. You can provide these permissions with the following command:
          <pre id="pre_xgf_skt_5wb">GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE otss_db TO feedback_db_user;</pre><p>For
          more details, see: <xref href="https://www.postgresql.org/docs/12/sql-grant.html"
            format="html" scope="external"/>.</p></li>
      <li>Configure <b>Oxygen Text Search Service</b> to connect to the database: <ol
          id="ol_ygf_skt_5wb">
          <li>Edit the <filepath>$OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_INSTALL_DIR/docker-compose.yml</filepath>
            file.</li>
          <li>Configure <b>Oxygen Text Search Service</b> with the following environment
              variables:<codeblock id="codeblock_v2x_tmt_5wb" outputclass="language-yml">  text-search-service:
    # [...]
    environment:
      - spring.datasource.url=jdbc:postgresql://db_server_host:5432/otss_db
      - spring.datasource.username=feedback_db_user
      - spring.datasource.password=password</codeblock><p>In this example, replace
                <codeph>db_server_host</codeph> with the actual IP address or hostname of the
              machine running the PostgreSQL server (it can also be an internal network name if both
              services run on the same Docker network).<note id="note_gdv_q5y_ycc" type="important">
                <p id="p_wlh_q5g_zcc">Since <ph keyref="product"/> always runs inside a Docker
                  container, do not use <codeph>localhost</codeph> in the database server URL
                  configuration.</p>
                <p id="p_xlh_q5g_zcc">Inside the container, <codeph>localhost</codeph> refers to the
                  container itself, not the host machine. To connect to a MySQL database running on
                  the host machine or another server, use the host machine's IP address instead of
                    <codeph>localhost</codeph>. You can determine the host's IP by running
                    <codeph>ip a</codeph> on the host machine.</p>
                <p id="p_ylh_q5g_zcc">If the database is hosted on the same machine, ensure it is
                  configured to accept connections from external sources (e.g. Docker containers).
                </p>
              </note></p></li>
        </ol></li>
    </ol>
    
  </body>
</topic>
