<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ofbENT-how-to-upgrade-on-linux">
  <title>How to Upgrade Oxygen Feedback to a New Version</title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_shy_fpb_jpb">To upgrade <ph keyref="product"/> to a new version on Linux, follow this
      procedure:</p>
    <ol id="ol_vzd_gvf_lmb">
      <li id="li_mjw_dgk_54b">Stop the current <b>Oxygen Feedback</b> instance. For
        example:<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne">Run $OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_INSTALL_DIR/oxygen-feedback-1.3/bin/stop.sh</codeblock></li>
      <li id="li_njw_dgk_54b">Make a backup of the database used in your current <b>Oxygen
          Feedback</b> installation.<ul id="ul_lwd_spb_jpb">
          <li id="li_mwd_spb_jpb">For MySQL, see: <xref
              href="https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/mysqldump.html" format="html"
              scope="external"/>.</li>
          <li id="li_pnq_5pb_jpb">For PostgreSQL, see: <xref
              href="https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.2/app-pg-dumpall.html" format="html"
              scope="external"/>.</li>
        </ul></li>
      <li id="li_ojw_dgk_54b">Download the latest <xref
          href="http://oxygenxml.com/oxygen_feedback_enterprise/download.html" format="html"
          scope="external"><b>Oxygen Feedback Enterprise</b> installation kit</xref>.</li>
      <li id="li_rjw_dgk_54b">Create an installation directory (subsequently referred to as
        NEW_OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_INSTALL_DIR) and unzip the downloaded kit to this new directory. The
        application files are stored in this directory.<p id="p_lf3_2qb_jpb">Sample code to create
          the installation
          directory:<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_sjw_dgk_54b">export NEW_OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_INSTALL_DIR=/home/feedback/oxygen-feedback-upgraded
sudo mkdir $NEW_OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_INSTALL_DIR
sudo chown feedback: $NEW_OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_INSTALL_DIR</codeblock></p><p id="p_mb5_hqb_jpb"
          >Sample code to extract the archive
          content:<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne">cd $NEW_OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_INSTALL_DIR
# Download new version of Oxygen Feedback and save it to $NEW_OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_INSTALL_DIR
wget https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Feedback/oxygen-feedback-enterprise.zip
# Unzip downloaded file
unzip oxygen-feedback-enterprise.zip</codeblock></p><p id="p_xj3_kqb_jpb"><b>Step
            Result:</b> The archive content is extracted into a new directory (for example, named
            <i>oxygen-feedback-1.4</i>), so the path becomes:
            <filepath>[NEW_OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_INSTALL_DIR]/oxygen-feedback-1.4</filepath>.</p></li>
      <li id="li_tjw_dgk_54b">Configure the <i>Feedback Home Directory</i> and <i>Application
          Properties</i>.<p id="p_yym_5qb_jpb">By default, the <i>Feedback Home Directory</i> is
          configured to point to the current installation directory. The home directory stores the
          configuration and other data. You can set a custom home directory, other than the current
          installation directory.<note id="note_ltv_1rb_jpb">It is recommended to have it separate
            from the installation directory to make it easier to manage updates.</note></p><ol
          id="ol_z2p_2rb_jpb">
          <li id="li_afp_2rb_jpb">Depending on whether or not you have a custom <i>Feedback Home
              Directory</i> configured in your previous installation, choose one of the following
              procedures:<ol id="ol_v3w_mrb_jpb">
              <li id="li_w3w_mrb_jpb"><b>[Option 1]</b> If you already have an external <i>Feedback
                  Home Directory</i> configured:<ol id="ol_fgh_5rb_jpb">
                  <li id="li_ggh_5rb_jpb">Make a backup copy of the current home
                    directory:<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne">cp -a ${OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_HOME_DIR} ${OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_HOME_DIR}.bak</codeblock></li>
                  <li id="li_gzl_csb_jpb">Edit
                      <filepath>[NEW_OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_INSTALL_DIR]/oxygen-feedback-1.4/feedback-home.properties</filepath>
                    to point to the custom path created in step 4 above.</li>
                  <li id="li_ttb_hsb_jpb">Update the properties file structure from
                      <filepath>[OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_HOME_DIR]/config</filepath> to match the new
                    structure from
                      <filepath>[NEW_OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_INSTALL_DIR]/oxygen-feedback-1.4/config</filepath>
                    (if needed). If the structure was modified, also update the new property
                      values.<note id="note_wyx_nsb_jpb" type="tip">You could perform a directory
                      diff comparison between <filepath>[OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_HOME_DIR]/config</filepath>
                      and
                        <filepath>[NEW_OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_INSTALL_DIR]/oxygen-feedback-1.4/config</filepath>
                      to determine the changes in the structure. You should also fill in the newly
                      added properties in the latest version (see <xref
                        href="ofbENT-how_to_install.dita#fb-install-steps/section_jlx_ylz_mmb">How
                        to Install Oxygen Feedback Enterprise Service on Linux - Step 4: [Optional]
                        Create Separate Home Directory (for Config and Data)</xref>).</note><note
                      id="note_cmj_htb_jpb" type="attention">Note that this modifies the
                        <filepath>feedback-ldap.properties</filepath> file.</note></li>
                </ol></li>
              <li id="li_rr1_ntb_jpb"><b>[Option 2]</b> If you have not configured a custom
                  <i>Feedback Home Directory</i> in the old installation:<ol id="ol_m34_5tb_jpb">
                  <li id="li_n34_5tb_jpb">Update the
                      [<filepath>NEW_OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_INSTALL_DIR]/oxygen-feedback-1.4/config
                      properties</filepath> files based on your configuration from your previous
                    installation. Perform a directory diff comparison between
                      <filepath>[OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_HOME_DIR]/config</filepath> and
                      <filepath>[NEW_OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_INSTALL_DIR]/oxygen-feedback-1.4/config</filepath>
                    to determine the changes.</li>
                  <li id="li_ab3_b5b_jpb">Fill in the newly added properties in the latest version
                    (see <xref
                      href="ofbENT-how_to_install.dita#fb-install-steps/section_jlx_ylz_mmb">How to
                      Install Oxygen Feedback Enterprise Service on Linux - Step 4: [Optional]
                      Create Separate Home Directory (for Config and Data)</xref>).</li>
                  <li id="li_znb_25b_jpb">Copy the
                      <filepath>[OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_INSTALL_DIR]/oxygen-feedback-1.3/data</filepath>
                    directory (old installation) to
                      <filepath>[NEW_OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_INSTALL_DIR]/oxygen-feedback-1.4/data</filepath>.</li>
                  <li id="li_emk_h5b_jpb">Copy the <filepath>licensekey.txt</filepath> file from the
                    old installation to the new installation directory.</li>
                </ol></li>
            </ol></li>
          <li id="li_egl_35b_jpb">If you are using MySQL, copy the MySQL JDBC driver from the old
            installation to:
              <filepath>[NEW_OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_INSTALL_DIR]/oxygen-feedback-1.4/lib</filepath> or
            download a version of MySQL and add it to
              <filepath>[NEW_OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_INSTALL_DIR]/oxygen-feedback-1.4/lib</filepath> (see
              <xref href="ofbENT-how_to_install.dita#fb-install-steps/section_mdf_gmz_mmb">How to
              Install Oxygen Feedback Enterprise Service on Linux - Step 6: Set Up
            Database</xref>).</li>
        </ol></li>
      <li id="li_xvv_r5b_jpb">Start <ph keyref="product"/>. For
        example:<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne">Run $OXYGEN_FEEDBACK_INSTALL_DIR/oxygen-feedback-1.4/bin/start.sh</codeblock></li>
    </ol>
  </body>
</topic>
