<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ooxml-to-dita">
  <title>Migrating MS Office Documents to DITA</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Transformation Scenarios<indexterm>DOCX DITA</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>DITA<indexterm>Migrate Office documents to DITA</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> integrates the entire <xref href="http://www.dita4publishers.org/"
        format="html" scope="external">DITA for Publishers plugins suite</xref> and includes some
      helpful tools that allows you to migrate content from Microsoft Office® Word (and other
      similar types of documents) to DITA. Migration from proprietary formats to XML is rarely
      perfect and manual changes may need to be made to the converted content, but the methods
      described below should help you find the best approach for your particular case:</p>
    <section id="method_1">
      <title>Method 1</title>
      <ol>
        <li>Open the document in MS Office (or other similar application), select all the content,
          and copy it.</li>
        <li>Open <ph keyref="product"/> and create a new DITA topic. </li>
        <li>Paste the selected content in <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode. The <xref
            href="smart-paste-support.dita#smart-paste-support"><term>Smart Paste</term>
            functionality</xref> will attempt to convert the content to DITA.</li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    <section id="method_2">
      <title>Method 2</title>
      <ol>
        <li>Save your document as HTML.</li>
        <li>Once you have converted it to HTML, you have two possibilities:<p>
            <ul>
              <li>In <ph keyref="product"/>, select <menucascade>
                  <uicontrol>File</uicontrol>
                  <uicontrol>Import</uicontrol>
                  <uicontrol>HTML File</uicontrol>
                </menucascade> to import it as XHTML. Then, open the XHTML in <ph keyref="product"/>
                and use one of the <xref
                  href="author-xhtml-transformation-scenarios.dita#author-xhtml-transformation-scenarios"
                    ><uicontrol>XHTML to DITA</uicontrol> Transformation Scenarios</xref> to convert
                the content to DITA.</li>
              <li>Open the HTML file in any Web browser, select all of its content, and copy it.
                Then, open <ph keyref="product"/>, create a new <b>DITA</b> topic and paste the
                selected content in <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode. The <xref
                  href="smart-paste-support.dita#smart-paste-support"><term>Smart Paste</term>
                  functionality</xref> will attempt to convert the HTML content to DITA. </li>
            </ul>
          </p></li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    <section id="method_3">
      <title>Method 3</title>
      <p>
        <ol>
          <li>Open the document in the free <i>Libre Office</i> application and save it as
              <b>DocBook</b>. </li>
          <li>Open the <b>DocBook</b> document in <ph keyref="product"/>.</li>
          <li>Run the predefined <xref href="docbook-2-dita-transform.dita#docbook-2-dita-transform"
              >transformation scenario called <uicontrol>DocBook to DITA</uicontrol></xref>. </li>
        </ol>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="method_4">
      <title>Method 4</title>
      <p>
        <ol>
          <li>If the document is in the MS Word DOCX format, you can open it in the <xref
              href="archive-browser-view.dita#archive-browser-view"><uicontrol>Archive
                Browser</uicontrol> view</xref> in <ph keyref="product"/> and then open the
              <b>document.xml</b> file contained in the archive.</li>
          <li>Run the predefined <xref
              href="create-dita-ot-transformation.dita#create-dita-ot-transformation">transformation
              scenario</xref> called <uicontrol>DOCX DITA</uicontrol>. This scenario runs a build
            file over the DOCX archive and should produce a DITA project that contains a DITA map
            and multiple topics. </li>
          <li>You may need to do some manual reconfiguring to map DOCX styles to DITA content. </li>
        </ol>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="smart-paste-support.dita#smart-paste-support"/>
      <link href="import-introduction.dita#import-introduction"/>
      <link href="working-with-archives.dita#working-with-archives"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
