<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ope-how_to_secure_the_publishing_process">
  <title>How to Secure the Publishing Process</title>
  <body>
    <p>In case you are building a publishing service based on the <xref
        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/publishing_engine.html" format="html" scope="external"
          ><b>Oxygen Publishing Engine</b></xref>, there are several questions you should take into
        account:<ul id="ul_pph_5mb_lpb">
        <li>Is the set of input documents coming from a trusted source?</li>
        <li>Is the publishing template customization under your organization control or is it
          uploaded by another party?</li>
      </ul>If the data or customization is not fully controlled, you must take some steps to make
      the publishing process as secure as possible.</p>
    <p>The <xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/publishing_engine.html" format="html"
        scope="external"><b>Oxygen Publishing Engine</b></xref> is a Java process that invokes an
      ANT script that processes the input documents in stages, up to the final output. When using a
      CSS-based PDF transformation, besides the normal processing, a new Java process is forked (the
      Chemistry process that transforms the merged DITA map into a PDF file). </p>
    <p>Java has a built-in security mechanism that lets you control the set of accessible resources.
      It has command-line options that allow the caller to indicate a <xref
        href="https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/security/PolicyFiles.html"
        format="html" scope="external">security policy file</xref>.</p>
    <p>Because there are two processes, <b>two policy files are needed</b> for securing the
      publishing process (the <codeph>ope.policy</codeph> file and the
        <codeph>chemistry.policy</codeph> file):</p>
    <section id="section_jyn_z5r_4pb">
      <title>The <term>ope.policy</term> File</title>
      <p>It is located here: <codeph>${OPE-INSTALL_DIR}/config/ope.policy</codeph>. This can be used
        as a starting point (a template) for securing just the primary OPE process. You can add more
        permissions for other resources. <note id="note_t41_4yr_4pb">When changing this file, it is
          better to save it in another location and change it there. This ensures that you will not
          lose changes when upgrading the <b>Oxygen Publishing Engine</b>.</note></p>
      <codeblock id="codeblock_wlg_3vr_4pb" outputclass="language-java">....
grant {

	/////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
	// Permissions for the Publishing Engine input and output.
	
	// The installation directory of the OPE
	permission java.io.FilePermission "${ope.install.dir}", "read";
	permission java.io.FilePermission "${ope.install.dir}/-", "read";
	
	// The output directory where the files will be stored.
	// This property should be set to the main "out" folder, 
	// not the transtype subfolder like: "out/pdf-css-html5".
	permission java.io.FilePermission "${ope.output.dir}", "read, write";
	permission java.io.FilePermission "${ope.output.dir}/-", "read, write, delete";
	
....</codeblock>
      <p>In the snippet above, the variables are system properties that must be specified when
        starting the primary DITA transformation process.</p>
      <p>To start the OPE process with the security constraints, you have to use the
          <codeph>ANT_OPTS</codeph> environment variable to set the Java system properties that
        activate the security mechanism (the <codeph>java.security.manager</codeph> and
          <codeph>java.security.policy</codeph>) that points to either the file specified in the
          <filepath>config</filepath> folder or to the one you changed. The <i>OPE_INSTALL_DIR</i>
        should be the directory where the OPE is installed in file syntax form (not a URL).
        <codeblock id="codeblock_d1g_qwr_4pb" outputclass="language-bourne">SET OPE_INSTALL_DIR="C:\ope"
ANT_OPTS=-Djava.security.policy="file:/%OPE_INSTALL_DIR%/config/ope.policy" \
         -Djava.security.manager</codeblock>You need to set values to the variables used in
        the policy file. This can be done using the same <codeph>ANT_OPTS</codeph> environment
        variable:<codeblock id="codeblock_y4d_fxr_4pb" outputclass="language-bourne">SET ANT_OPTS=%ANT_OPTS% \
-Dope.install.dir="%OPE_INSTALL_DIR%" \
-Dope.input.dir="test\map" \
-Dope.output.dir="test\map\out" \
-Dope.temp.dir="test\map\temp" \
-Dope.publishing.template.dir="test\templates\template" \
-Djava.io.tmpdir="test\map\temp\pdf-css-html5" \
-Dcss.processor.path.chemistry="%OPE_INSTALL_DIR%\plugins\com.oxygenxml.pdf.css\lib\oxygen-pdf-chemistry\chemistry.bat" </codeblock></p>
      <p>
        <note id="note_thp_5vr_4pb">If you plan to create your own policy file, you can specify the
          paths directly without needing to pass them as system properties. Take care to quote the
          paths and escape the backslash file separators on Windows. The <uicontrol>"*"</uicontrol>
          operator means all files from the folder, while the <uicontrol>"-"</uicontrol> operator
          means all files from a folder and its subfolders. For
          example:<codeblock id="codeblock_ns5_dwr_4pb" outputclass="language-javascript">permission java.io.FilePermission "C:\\folder\\with\\images\\-", "read";</codeblock>Of
          course, you also have the option of using more variables. Make sure you set them in the
            <codeph>ANT_OPTS</codeph> environment variable.</note>
        <note id="note_trz_14y_4pb">You can control the set of system properties the XSLT processor
          can read by using the <codeph>ope.allowed.sys.props.for.saxon</codeph> parameter. It
          accepts a semi-colon (<codeph>;</codeph>) separated list of property names. The built-in
          default is:
          <codeblock id="codeblock_mn1_g4y_4pb" outputclass="language-bourne">-Dope.allowed.sys.props.for.saxon="file.separator;path.separator;line.separator;OT_VERSION;webhelp.*;user.dir"</codeblock></note>
      </p>
      <note id="note_kc2_k4y_4pb" type="tip">It is good practice to specify another temporary
        directory that will be used by the Java process (the <codeph>java.io.tmpdir</codeph>
        parameter) to avoid leaving the process to read and write in the system-wide temporary
        folder. </note>
    </section>
    <section id="section_xkq_dvr_4pb">
      <title>The <term>chemistry.policy</term> File</title>
      <p>It is located here:
          <codeph>${OPE_INSTALL_DIR}/plugins/com.oxygenxml.pdf.css/lib/oxygen-pdf-chemistry/config/chemistry.policy</codeph>.
        This also can be used as it is, or as a template, for securing the Chemistry process that is
        forked by the OPE.</p>
      <p>This time, the security policy file can be specified using the
          <codeph>chemistry.security.policy</codeph> system property argument. In addition, you need
        to specify a folder where Chemistry will create its temporary files and font cache using the
          <codeph>chemistry.security.workspace</codeph> property:</p>
      <codeblock id="codeblock_agy_bbs_4pb" outputclass="language-bourne">dita.bat -Dchemistry.security.policy="%OPE_INSTALL_DIR%\plugins\com.oxygenxml.pdf.css\lib\oxygen-pdf-chemistry\config\chemistry.policy \
-Dchemistry.security.workspace="C:\some\dir\for\chemistry\fonts\cache\and\temp\files"</codeblock>
      <p>
        <note id="note_mhb_pbs_4pb">If you plan to change the chemistry policy file, it is better to
          save it in another location and change it there. This ensures that you will not lose
          changes when upgrading the <b>Oxygen Publishing Engine</b>.</note>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
