<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="open-local-file-from-cmd">
  <title>Opening Local Files at Start-up</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Open file at start-up</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>To open a local file at start-up when you open <ph keyref="product"/> from the command line,
      add the paths for one or more local files as parameters in the command line:<ul>
        <li><codeph>scriptName [pathToXMLFile1] [pathToXMLFile2]</codeph><ul>
            <li><b>scriptName</b> is the name of the startup script for your platform (<ph
                product="editor">oxygen.bat</ph>
              <ph product="author">
                <filepath>oxygenAuthor.bat</filepath>
              </ph><ph product="developer">
                <filepath>oxygenDeveloper.bat</filepath>
              </ph> on Windows, <ph product="editor">
                <filepath>oxygen.sh</filepath>
              </ph>
              <ph product="author">
                <filepath>oxygenAuthor.sh</filepath>
              </ph><ph product="developer">
                <filepath>oxygenDeveloper.sh</filepath>
              </ph> on Unix/Linux, <ph product="editor">
                <filepath>oxygenMac.sh</filepath>
              </ph><ph product="author">
                <filepath>oxygenAuthorMac.sh</filepath>
              </ph><ph product="developer">
                <filepath>oxygenDeveloperMac.sh</filepath>
              </ph> on Mac OS).</li>
            <li><b>pathToXMLFileN</b> is the name of a local XML file.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li product="editor developer">
          <p>An XML file and a schema file to be associated automatically to the file and used for
            validation and content completion:</p>
          <p>
            <codeph>scriptName -instance pathToXMLFile -schema pathToSchemaFile -schemaType
              XML_SCHEMA|DTD_SCHEMA|RNG_SCHEMA|RNC_SCHEMA -dtName documentTypeName</codeph></p>
          <p>
            <ul>
              <li><b>scriptName</b> is the name of the startup script for your platform (oxygen.bat
                on Windows, oxygen.sh on Unix/Linux, oxygenMac.sh on Mac OS).</li>
              <li><b>pathToXMLFile</b> is the name of a local XML file.</li>
              <li><b>pathToSchemaFile</b> is the name of the schema that you want to associate to
                the XML file, the four constants (XML_SCHEMA, DTD_SCHEMA, RNG_SCHEMA, RNC_SCHEMA)
                are the possible schema types (W3C XML Schema, DTD, Relax NG schema in full syntax,
                Relax NG schema in compact syntax).</li>
              <li><b>documentTypeName</b> specifies the name of the document type for which the
                schema is defined. If the document type is already set in preferences, its schema
                and type are updated.</li>
            </ul>
          </p>
        </li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>The two possibilities of opening files at startup by specifying them in the command line are
      explained also if the startup script receives one of the <i>-h</i> or <i>--help</i>
      parameters. </p>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist><title>Related Information:</title><link href="opening-document-from-cli.dita#opening-document-from-cli"/></linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
