<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="other-doc-types">
  <title>Other Supported Document Types</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Supported document types</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_brk_cgk_54b">Along with the <xref href="doc-type.dita#doc-type">fully supported built-in
          <term>frameworks</term> (document types)</xref>, <ph keyref="product"/> also provides
      limited support (including document templates) for editing a variety of other document types.
      All the specialized views, editors, actions, and options are dynamic according to the type of
      file that is opened or created. Other document types that are supported in <ph
        keyref="product"/> include:<ul id="ul_xjb_r53_cr">
        <li id="li_crk_cgk_54b"><xref href="epub-document-type.dita">EPUB (NCX, OCF, OPF 2.0, 3.0, &amp; 3.1)</xref> - A
          standard for e-book files.</li>
        <li id="li_drk_cgk_54b"><xref href="working-with-epub.dita#working-with-epub">OOXML</xref> - An XML-based file
          format for representing spreadsheets, charts, presentations, and word processing
          documents.</li>
        <li id="li_erk_cgk_54b"><xref href="working-with-epub.dita#working-with-epub">ODF</xref> - An free and
          open-source XML-based file format for electronic office documents, such as spreadsheets,
          charts, presentations, and word processing documents.</li>
        <li id="li_frk_cgk_54b"><xref href="author-docbook-targetset-doc-type.dita">DocBook Targetset</xref> - For
          resolving cross-references when using <i>olinks</i>.</li>
        <li product="developer editor" id="li_grk_cgk_54b"><xref href="editing-ant-build-files.dita">Ant Build
            Scripts</xref> - A tool for automating software build processes, written in Java and
          primarily intended for use with Java.</li>
        <li product="developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse" id="li_hrk_cgk_54b"><xref
            href="editing-xslt-stylesheets.dita">XSLT Stylesheets</xref> - A document type that
          provides a visual mode for editing XSLT stylesheets.</li>
        <li product="developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse" id="li_irk_cgk_54b"><xref
            href="editing-wsdl-documents.dita">WSDL</xref> - Web Services Description Language is an
          XML language for describing the functionality offered by a web service.</li>
        <li product="developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse" id="li_jrk_cgk_54b"><xref
            href="editing-schematron.dita#editing-schematron">Schematron</xref> - For making
          assertions about the presence or absence of patterns in XML documents. This document type
          applies to the ISO Schematron version.</li>
        <li id="li_krk_cgk_54b"><xref href="schematron-quick-fixes.dita#schematron-quick-fixes">Schematron Quick Fixes
            (SQF)</xref> - An extension of the ISO standard Schematron, allows developers to define
            <xref keyref="glossentry_quick-fix"><term>Quick Fixes</term></xref> for Schematron
          errors.</li>
        <li id="li_lrk_cgk_54b"><xref href="editing-stratML.dita">StratML (Part 1 &amp; 2)</xref> - Part 1 and 2 of the
          Strategy Markup Language specification.</li>
        <li product="developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse" id="li_mrk_cgk_54b"><xref
            href="editing-xproc-scripts.dita">XProc</xref> - A document type for processing XProc
          script files.</li>
        <li product="developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse" id="li_nrk_cgk_54b"><xref
            href="editing-xml-schema-schemas.dita">XML Schema</xref> - Documents that provide
          support for editing annotations.</li>
        <li product="author developer editor" id="li_ork_cgk_54b"><xref href="SVG-documents.dita">SVG</xref> - Scalable
          Vector Graphics is a language for describing two-dimensional graphics in XML.</li>
        <li product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse" id="li_prk_cgk_54b"><xref
            href="author-editing-mathml.dita">MathML</xref> - Mathematical Markup Language (2.0 and
          3.0) is an application of XML for describing mathematical notations.</li>
        <li id="li_qrk_cgk_54b"><xref href="editing-xliff.dita#editing-xliff">XLIFF (1.2, 2.0, 2.1)</xref> - XML
          Localization Interchange File Format is a standard for passing data between tools during a
          localization process.</li>
        <li product="developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse" id="li_rrk_cgk_54b"><xref
            href="editing-xquery-documents.dita#editing-xquery-documents">XQuery</xref> - The common
          query language for XML.</li>
        <li id="li_srk_cgk_54b"><xref href="editing-css-stylesheets.dita#editing-css-stylesheets">CSS</xref> - Cascading
          Style Sheets is a language used for describing the look and formatting of a document.</li>
        <li product="author developer editor" id="li_trk_cgk_54b"><xref
            href="editing-less-css-stylesheets.dita#editing-less-css-stylesheets">LESS</xref> - A
          dynamic style sheet language that can be compiled into CSS.</li>
        <li product="developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse" id="li_urk_cgk_54b"><xref
            href="editing-relax-ng-schemas.dita#editing-relax-ng-schemas">Relax NG Schema</xref> - A
          schema language that specifies a pattern for the structure and content of an XML
          document.</li>
        <li product="developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse" id="li_vrk_cgk_54b"><xref
            href="editing-nvdl-schemas.dita#editing-nvdl-schemas">NVDL Schema</xref> - Namespace
          Validation Dispatching Language allows you to specify sections of XML documents to be
          validated against various schemas.</li>
        <li product="developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse" id="li_wrk_cgk_54b"><xref
            href="editing-JSON.dita#editing-JSON">JSON</xref> - JavaScript Object Notation is a
          lightweight data-interchange format.</li>
        <li id="li_xrk_cgk_54b"><xref href="editing-markdown.dita#editing-markdown">Markdown</xref> - A lightweight
          markup language with plain text formatting syntax that can be converted to HTML or
          DITA.</li>
        <li id="li_yrk_cgk_54b"><xref href="editing-JavaScript.dita#editing-JavaScript">JavaScript</xref> - Programming
          language of HTML and the Web.</li>
        <li id="li_zrk_cgk_54b">XMLSpec - A markup language for W3C specifications and other technical reports.</li>
        <li id="li_ask_cgk_54b">DITAVAL - DITA conditional processing profile to identify the values you want to
          conditionally process for a particular output, build, or other purpose. </li>
        <li id="li_bsk_cgk_54b"><xref href="https://daisy.org/activities/standards/daisy/" format="html" scope="external">Daisy XML</xref> - A technical standard for digital audio books, periodicals, and computerized text. It is designed to be an audio substitute for print material.</li>
        <li id="li_csk_cgk_54b">EAD - Encoded Archival Description is an XML standard for encoding archival finding
          aids.</li>
        <li id="li_dsk_cgk_54b">KML - Keyhole Markup Language is an XML notation for expressing geographic visualization
          in maps and browsers.</li>
        <li id="li_esk_cgk_54b">Maven Project &amp; Settings - Project or settings file for Maven build automation tool
          that is primarily used for Java projects.</li>
        <li id="li_fsk_cgk_54b">Oasis <term>XML Catalog</term> - An <xref keyref="glossentry_xml-catalog"><term>XML
              Catalog</term></xref> document that describes a mapping between external entity
          references and locally-cached equivalents.</li>
        <li id="li_c1j_p2c_15b">AsyncAPI - A standard for defining asynchronous APIs. <ph
            keyref="product"/> includes support for editing AsyncAPI document, automatic validation,
          and content completion.</li>
        <li id="li_gsk_cgk_54b"><xref href="editing-other-doc-types.dita#editing-other-doc-types">Other Non-XML
            Files</xref>- <ph keyref="product"/> also includes a simple text editor and a variety of
          helpful features for creating and editing non-XML files.</li>
      </ul></p>
  </body>
</topic>
