<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="outliner-popup-menu">
  <title>The Popup Menu of the Outline Tree</title><prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>XML Outline View<indexterm>document structure change<indexterm>popup menu</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>The <i>Append Child</i>, <i>Insert Before</i> and <i>Insert After</i> submenus of the outline
      tree popup menu allow to quickly insert new tags in the document at the place of the element
      currently selected in the Outline tree. The <i>Append Child</i> submenu lists the names of all
      the elements which are allowed by the schema associated with the current document as child of
      the current element. The <i>Insert Before</i> and <i>Insert After</i> submenus of the Outline
      tree popup menu list the elements which are allowed by the schema associated with the current
      document as siblings of the current element inserted immediately before respectively after the
      current element.</p>
    <p><i>Edit attributes</i> for the selected node. A dialog is presented allowing the user to see and edit the attributes of the selected node.</p>
    <p>The <i>Toggle comment</i> item of the outline tree popup menu is the same item as in the
      editor popup menu with the same name. It encloses the currently selected element of the
      outline tree in an XML comment, if the element is not commented, or uncomments it, if it is
      commented.</p>
    <p>The <i>Cut</i>, <i>Copy</i> and <i>Delete</i> items of the popup menu execute <ph product="editor author"><xref href="copying-and-pasting-text.dita">the same actions as the
          Edit menu items with the same name</xref> on the elements currently selected in the
        outline tree.</ph>
      <ph product="editorEclipse authorEclipse">the same actions as the Edit menu items with the
        same name on the elements currently selected in the outline tree (Cut, Copy,
      Paste).</ph></p>
  </body>
  <related-links product="editor editorEclipse author authorEclipse">
    <link href="author-attributes-view.dita"/>
  </related-links>
</topic>