<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="output-xml-xquery">
  <title>The Output Tab</title>
  <body>
    <p>The <uicontrol>Output</uicontrol> tab contains the following options:<ul>
        <li><uicontrol>Present as a sequence</uicontrol> - enable this option to avoid the long time
          necessary for fetching the full result. This option fetches only the first chunk of the
          result;</li>
        <li><ph conref="the-output-tab.dita#the-output-tab/prompt-for-file"/>;</li>
        <li><ph conref="the-output-tab.dita#the-output-tab/output-tab-save-as"/>;</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Open in Browser/System Application</uicontrol> - If enabled, <ph
            keyref="product"/> opens the
          transformation result automatically, in a system application associated with the type of
          the result (HTML/XHTML, PDF, text) file.<note><ph>If you already set the
                <uicontrol>Default Internet browser</uicontrol> option in the
                <uicontrol>Global</uicontrol> preferences page, it takes precedence over the default
              system application settings.</ph></note><note
            product="editorEclipse authorEclipse developerEclipse">Go to <menucascade>
              <uicontrol>Window</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>General</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Web Browser</uicontrol>
            </menucascade> to set the web browser that is used for displaying HTML/XHTML
            pages.</note></li>
        <li><ph conref="the-output-tab.dita#the-output-tab/output-tab-saved-file"/>;</li>
        <li><ph conref="the-output-tab.dita#the-output-tab/outpu-tab-other-location"/></li>
      </ul><ul>
        <li><ph conref="the-output-tab.dita#the-output-tab/output-tab-open-in-editor"/>;</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Show As XHTML</uicontrol> - It is enabled only when <uicontrol>Open in
            browser</uicontrol> is disabled. If this is checked, <ph
            keyref="product"/> displays the
          transformation result in a built-in XHTML browser panel at the bottom of the application
            window.<note type="important">When transforming very large documents, you should be
            aware that enabling this feature results in a very long time necessary for rendering the
            transformation result in the XHTML result viewer panel. This drawback appears due to the
            built-in Java XHTML browser implementation. In these cases, if you wish to see the XHTML
            result of the transformation, you should use an external browser by checking the
              <uicontrol>Open in browser</uicontrol> option.</note></li>
      </ul><ul>
        <li><ph conref="the-output-tab.dita#the-output-tab/output-tab-show-as-xml"/></li>
      </ul><ul>
        <li><ph conref="the-output-tab.dita#the-output-tab/output-tab-show-as-svg"
            product="author developer editor"/>;</li>
        <li><ph conref="the-output-tab.dita#the-output-tab/image-urls-are-relative-to"/>.</li>
      </ul></p>
  </body>
</topic>
