<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="overview">
  <title>Introduction</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Introduction to Content Fusion</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <section id="section_afk_gdb_33c">
      <title>What is Oxygen Content Fusion?</title>
      <p id="p_bfk_gdb_33c"><ph keyref="product"/> combines the power of Git-based versioning
        control with an intuitive, browser-based authoring and review interface. It bridges the gap
        between XML experts and subject matter experts (SMEs) with a platform built for structured
        content, real-time collaboration, and agentic AI workflows powered by <b>Oxygen AI
          Positron</b>. Teams can use Content Fusion either as a lightweight, review-only solution,
        or as a full DITA CMS for managing and publishing complex documentation.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_cfk_gdb_33c">
      <title>Collaborative Reviews</title>
      <p id="p_dfk_gdb_33c"><ph keyref="product"/> makes it easy to involve subject matter experts
        (SMEs) through a streamlined, browser-based review process that simplifies collaboration and
        speeds up feedback. This reduces the workload on content authors and improves overall team
        efficiency.</p>
      <p id="p_efk_gdb_33c">Multiple collaborators can work in real time on the same document
        concurrently, seeing edits, comments, and suggestions as they happen, without file locks.
        SMEs can contribute changes or leave comments directly in the browser, without needing XML
        expertise.</p>
      <p id="p_ffk_gdb_33c">Review tasks can be associated with Content Fusion projects so that
        feedback is captured in context, tracked alongside the corresponding DITA sources, and
        easily merged back into the main content. All changes are tracked and attributed to the
        correct user, ensuring full traceability of content evolution. Authors have full control
        over who can access the review content and how they interact with it, and all collaboration
        happens outside the main editing and production flow, so authors remain in control of what
        changes are accepted and when they are promoted to production.</p>
      <note id="note_atl_rdb_33c" type="important"><ph keyref="product"/> can be used purely as a
        collaborative review platform, without projects or publishing. In this mode, you create
        review tasks directly from <i>Oxygen XML Editor</i> or <i>Oxygen XML Author</i> and send
        them to subject matter experts (SMEs), who can review and comment on content in a simple web
        interface without needing XML knowledge.</note>
    </section>
    <section id="section_hfk_gdb_33c">
      <title>Content Management</title>
      <p id="p_ifk_gdb_33c">When used as a full CMS, Content Fusion helps technical teams manage
        complex DITA content with ease and precision. The Content Fusion projects support allows you
        to connect to an existing Git repository that has a DITA project as its source, providing
        Git-based version control and a central place to coordinate work.</p>
      <p id="p_jfk_gdb_33c">Users with a <i>Content Fusion Author</i> role can create review tasks
        inside a project, and reviewers' suggestions are tracked on a dedicated branch in the Git
        repository. Authors can make changes across multiple files, use AI-assisted refinement via
          <b>Oxygen AI Positron</b>, and then commit updates back to the project, supporting
        scalable collaboration and controlled content evolution.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_kfk_gdb_33c">
      <title>Publishing to PDF and WebHelp</title>
      <p id="p_lfk_gdb_33c">Publishing is available as part of the full CMS experience. Once your
        DITA content is managed in a Content Fusion project, you can configure publishing pipelines
        that transform projects into high-quality PDFs and interactive WebHelp.</p>
      <p id="p_mfk_gdb_33c">These pipelines can be set up so that when content is ready, the final
        output is generated and can be automatically uploaded to your production environment. You
        can customize the look and feel of your deliverables using a variety of built-in templates,
        ensuring consistent, branded output with minimal manual effort.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="resources">
      <title>Resources</title>
      <p>For in-depth visual looks at <ph keyref="product"/>, see the following resources:<ul
          id="ul_bzc_455_ypb">
          <li id="li_if5_gv5_ypb">Webinar: <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/events/2025/webinar_introducing_oxygen_content_fusion_cloud.html"
              format="html" scope="external"><b>Introducing Oxygen Content Fusion
            Cloud</b></xref></li>
          <li id="li_if5_gv5_ypb2">Webinar: <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/events/2021/webinar_engage_everyone_in_the_technical_documentationprocess.html"
              format="html" scope="external"><b>Oxygen Content Fusion: Engage everyone in the
                technical documentation process</b></xref></li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
