<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE troubleshooting PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Troubleshooting//EN" "troubleshooting.dtd">
<troubleshooting id="oxygen-slow-start">
  <title>Application Takes Several Minutes to Start</title>
  <troublebody>
    <condition id="problem">
      <title>Problem</title>
      <p id="p_ick_dgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> seems to take an abnormally long amount of time to start.</p>
    </condition>
    <troubleSolution>
      <cause id="cause">
        <title>Cause 1</title>
        <p id="p_jck_dgk_54b">Some anti-virus software can cause Java applications, including <ph
            keyref="product"/>, to start very slowly due to scanning compressed archives (such as
          the <term>JAR</term> libraries that all Java applications use). During the process,
          various files would be accessed by <ph keyref="product"/> (including installed plugins)
          files from its installation folder, its user home folder (e.g.
            <filepath>C:\Users\&lt;username>\AppData\Roaming\com.oxygenxml</filepath>), its project
          folder, or local files from the Git projects (if the Git Client is used).</p>
      </cause>
      <remedy id="solution">
        <title>Solution</title>
        <steps-informal>
          <p id="p_kck_dgk_54b">A possible solution is to add the aforementioned folders to the list
            of exceptions in the anti-virus software settings.</p>
        </steps-informal>
      </remedy>
    </troubleSolution>
    <troubleSolution>
      <cause id="cause2">
        <title>Cause 2</title>
        <p id="p_jck_dgk_54b2">If files/folders from the <ph keyref="product"/> installation folder,
          its user home folder (e.g.
            <filepath>C:\Users\&lt;username>\AppData\Roaming\com.oxygenxml</filepath>), its project
          folder, or local files from the Git projects (if the Git Client is used), project, Git
          projects) are located remotely, it sometimes slows down the process. For example, <ph
            keyref="product"/> (or Java) may wait until these connections time out before
          proceeding.</p>
      </cause>
      <remedy id="23425677">
        <title>Solution 2</title>
        <steps-informal>
          <p>Keep a copy of those files/folders locally, rather than using them from the remote
            location.</p>
        </steps-informal>
      </remedy>
    </troubleSolution>
    <troubleSolution>
      <cause id="2563436">
        <title>Cause 3</title>
        <p>The built-in file browser may be slow to open if it is trying to access shortcuts to
          inaccessible network shares or drives on the Windows desktop.</p>
      </cause>
      <remedy id="23425626">
        <title>Solution 3</title>
        <steps-informal>
          <p>Remove the shortcuts to inaccessible network shares or drives.</p>
        </steps-informal>
      </remedy>
    </troubleSolution>
  </troublebody>
</troubleshooting>
