<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="oxygen-plugin">
  <title>General Configuration of an <ph keyref="product"/> Plugin</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Oxygen SDK<indexterm>Configuration</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Plugins<indexterm>Configuration</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <p id="p_hc2_dgk_54b">The <ph keyref="product"/> functionality can be extended with <xref
        keyref="glossentry_plugin"><term>plugins</term></xref> that implement a clearly specified
      API. On the <ph keyref="product"/> website, there is an <xref
        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/oxygen_sdk.html" format="html" scope="external">SDK</xref>
      with sample <term>plugins</term> (source and compiled Java code) and the Javadoc API necessary
      for developing custom <term>plugins</term>.</p>
    <p id="p_ic2_dgk_54b">The minimal implementation of a <term>plugin</term> must provide:</p>
    <ul id="ul_jc2_dgk_54b">
      <li id="li_kc2_dgk_54b">A Java class that extends the <term>ro.sync.exml.plugin.Plugin</term>
        class.</li>
      <li id="li_lc2_dgk_54b">A Java class that implements the
          <term>ro.sync.exml.plugin.PluginExtension</term> interface.</li>
      <li id="li_mc2_dgk_54b">A <term>plugin</term> descriptor file called <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath>.</li>
    </ul>
    <p id="p_nc2_dgk_54b">A <term>ro.sync.exml.plugin.PluginDescriptor</term> object is passed to
      the constructor of the subclass of the <term>ro.sync.exml.plugin.Plugin</term> class. It
      contains the following data items about the <term>plugin</term>:</p>
    <ul id="ul_oc2_dgk_54b">
      <li id="li_pc2_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>basedir</uicontrol> (<term>File</term> object) - The base
        directory of the <term>plugin</term>.</li>
      <li id="li_qc2_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>description</uicontrol> (<term>String</term> object) - The
        description of the <term>plugin</term>.</li>
      <li id="li_rc2_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>name</uicontrol> (<term>String</term> object) - The name of
        the <term>plugin</term>.</li>
      <li id="li_sc2_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>vendor</uicontrol> (<term>String</term> object) - The
        vendor name of the <term>plugin</term>.</li>
      <li id="li_tc2_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>version</uicontrol> (<term>String</term> object) - The
          <term>plugin</term> version.</li>
      <li id="li_uc2_dgk_54b"><ph id="plugin-id"><uicontrol>id</uicontrol> (<term>String</term>
          object) - A unique identifier.</ph></li>
      <li id="li_vc2_dgk_54b"><ph><uicontrol>classLoaderType</uicontrol> - You can choose between
            <codeph>preferOxygenResources</codeph> (default value) and
            <codeph>preferReferencedResources</codeph>. When choosing
            <codeph>preferOxygenResources</codeph>, the libraries that are referenced in the <ph
            keyref="product"/>
          <filepath>lib</filepath> directory will have precedence over those referenced in the
            <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath> configuration file, if they have the same package names.
          When choosing <codeph>preferReferencedResources</codeph>, the libraries that are
          referenced in the <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath> configuration file will have precedence
          over those found in the <ph keyref="product"/>
          <filepath>lib</filepath> directory, if they have the same package names.</ph></li>
    </ul>
    <p id="p_wc2_dgk_54b">The <term>plugin</term> descriptor is an XML file that defines how the
        <term>plugin</term> is integrated in <ph keyref="product"/> and what libraries are loaded.
      The structure of the <term>plugin</term> descriptor file is fully described in a DTD grammar
      located in <filepath><term conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
        />/plugins/plugin.dtd</filepath>. Here is a sample <term>plugin</term> descriptor used by
      the <term>Capitalize Lines</term> sample <term>plugin</term>: </p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_xc2_dgk_54b">&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?&gt;
&lt;!DOCTYPE plugin SYSTEM "../plugin.dtd"&gt;
&lt;plugin
    name="Capitalize Lines"
    description="Capitalize the first character on each line"
    version="1.0.0"
    vendor="SyncRO"
    class="ro.sync.sample.plugin.caplines.CapLinesPlugin"&gt;
    &lt;runtime&gt;
        &lt;library name="lib/caplines.jar"/&gt;
    &lt;/runtime&gt;
    &lt;extension type="selectionProcessor" 
    class="ro.sync.sample.plugin.caplines.CapLinesPluginExtension" 
           keyboardShortcut="ctrl shift EQUALS"/&gt;
&lt;/plugin&gt;</codeblock>
    <p id="p_yc2_dgk_54b">If your <term>plugin</term> is of the <uicontrol>Selection</uicontrol>,
        <uicontrol>Document</uicontrol> or <uicontrol>General</uicontrol> types, and thus
      contributes an action either to the contextual menu or to the main menu of the
        <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> editing mode, then you can assign a keyboard shortcut for it.
      You can use the <xmlatt>keyboardShortcut</xmlatt> attribute for each
        <xmlelement>extension</xmlelement> element to specify the desired shortcut.</p>
    <note type="tip" id="note_zc2_dgk_54b">To compose string representations of the desired shortcut keys you can go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Menu Shortcut Keys</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>, select an action, and click <uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol>. Then choose the
      desired key sequence and use the representation that appears in the resulting dialog
      box.</note>
    <section id="referencing_libraries">
      <title>Referencing Libraries</title>
      <p id="p_ad2_dgk_54b">To reference libraries, use either of the following elements:<ul id="ul_bd2_dgk_54b">
          <li id="li_cd2_dgk_54b"><xmlelement>library name="path/libraryName"</xmlelement> - To
            point to specific libraries. Notice that the value of <codeph>library name</codeph>
            includes the path (relative or absolute) to the library.<note id="note_dd2_dgk_54b">You
              can use the <xref href="editor-variables.dita#editor-variables/edVar-oxygenInstallDir"
                  ><term>${oxygenInstallDir}</term> editor variable</xref> as part of the value of
              the <xmlatt>name</xmlatt> attribute. You can also use a system variable
                (<codeph>${system(var.name)}</codeph>) or environment variable
                (<codeph>${env(VAR_NAME)}</codeph>).</note></li>
          <li id="li_ed2_dgk_54b"><xmlelement>librariesFolder
              name="path/libraryFolderPath"</xmlelement> - To point to multiple libraries located in
            the specified folder. Notice that the value of <codeph>libraryFolder name</codeph>
            includes the path (relative or absolute) to the library folder.</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p id="p_fd2_dgk_54b">Both elements support the <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt> attribute that defines the loading
        priority. It can have one of the following two values:<ul id="ul_cw1_gd3_c4">
          <li id="li_gd2_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>local</uicontrol> - The library is loaded in the
              <term>plugin's</term> own class loader. This is the default behavior.</li>
          <li id="li_hd2_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>global</uicontrol> - The library is loaded in the main
            application class loader as the last library in the list (as if it would be present in
            the application <filepath>lib</filepath> directory).</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_kg3_dbv_f5b">
      <title>Dependency Injection for Plugins</title>
      <p id="p_dys_dgk_54b">If you want to share a single instance of a certain class between plugin
        extensions and custom operations (to prevent instances from being repeated), you can declare
        a <xmlelement>context</xmlelement> element in your <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath>
        file:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;context class="my.package.ContextClass"/></codeblock></p>
      <note id="note_fcj_z3s_4qb" type="important">The <codeph>my.package.ContextClass</codeph>
        class should have a no-arguments constructor that will be called when the class is
        instantiated.</note>
      <p id="p_mzc_f3s_4qb">This will result in an instance being automatically generated. You can
        access this instance in an extension class by defining a field of that type and annotated
        with the <codeph>ro.sync.exml.plugin.PluginContext</codeph>
        annotation:<codeblock outputclass="language-java">@PluginContext
ContextClass contextInstance;</codeblock></p>
      <p id="p_gvj_r3s_4qb">The defined field is automatically populated with the single
        instance.</p>
      <note id="note_qjk_gkz_4wb" type="tip">By default, an instance of the
          <codeph>PluginDescriptor</codeph> class is also injectable.</note>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>
