<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="packing-and-deploying-addons">
  <title><?oxy_comment_start author="Steven" timestamp="20161222T123845+0200" comment="Maybe add an intro paragraph and that&apos;s where the glossary terms should reside in this topic."?>Packing
    and Deploying Plugins or Frameworks as Add-ons<?oxy_comment_end?></title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Oxygen SDK<indexterm>Deploying plugins as add-ons</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Plugins<indexterm>Deploying plugins as add-ons</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Framework customization<indexterm>Deploying as Add-ons</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <section id="packing_a_plugin_or_framework_as_an_addon">
      <title>Packing a Plugin or Framework as an Add-on</title>
      <p>This procedure is suitable for developers who want a better control over the <xref
          keyref="glossentry_plugin"><term>add-on</term></xref> package or those who want to
        automate some of the steps:<ol>
          <li>Pack the <xref keyref="glossentry_plugin"><term>plugin</term></xref> or <xref
              keyref="glossentry_framework"><term>framework</term></xref> as a <codeph>ZIP</codeph>
            file or a <xref keyref="glossentry_jar"><term>Java Archive</term></xref>. Note that you
            should pack the entire root directory not just its contents.</li>
          <li>Digitally sign the package. Note that you can perform this step only if you have
            created a <term>Java Archive</term> at the previous step. You will need a certificate
            signed by a trusted authority. To sign the <term>JAR</term> you can either use the
              <i>jarsigner</i> command line tool inside Oracle's Java Development Kit.
              (<filepath>[JDK_DIR]/bin/jarsigner.exe</filepath>) or, if you are working with <xref
              keyref="glossentry_ant"><term>Apache Ant</term></xref>, you can use the <i>signjar</i>
            task (a front for the <i>jarsigner</i> command line tool).<note>The benefit of having a
              signed add-on is that you can verify the integrity of the add-on issuer. If you do not
              have such a certificate you can generate one yourself using the <i>keytool</i> command
              line tool. This approach is mostly recommended for tests since anyone can create a
              self signed certificate. </note></li>
          <li>Create a descriptor file. You can use a template that <ph keyref="product"/> provides.
            To use this template, go to <menucascade>
              <uicontrol>File</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>New</uicontrol>
            </menucascade> and select the <uicontrol>Oxygen add-ons update site</uicontrol>
            template. Once deployed, this descriptor file is referenced as <i>update
            site</i>.</li>
        </ol></p>
      <p>Alternatively, you can use the <uicontrol>Add-ons Packager</uicontrol> plugin by following
        this procedure:<ol>
          <li>Install the <uicontrol>Add-ons Packager</uicontrol> plugin from <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Addons/optional/updateSite.xml" format="html"
              scope="external"/> as described in the <xref
                keyref="install_add-ons">Installing
              Add-ons procedure</xref>.</li>
          <li>Restart <ph keyref="product"/>. If the add-on is correctly installed, the
              <uicontrol>Add-ons packager</uicontrol> toolbar action is available.</li>
          <li>Invoke the <uicontrol>Add-ons packager</uicontrol> toolbar action and input the
            required information in the displayed dialog box.</li>
          <li>Press <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> to complete the packaging process.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="deploying_an_addon">
      <title>Deploying an Add-on</title>
      <p>To deploy an add-on, copy the <codeph>ZIP</codeph> or <xref keyref="glossentry_jar"
            ><term>Java Archive</term></xref> file and the descriptor file to an HTTP server. The
        URL to this location serves as the <i>Update Site URL</i>.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
