<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="pdf-xslt-extensions-pub-template_use_case_2_removing_the_related_links_section">
	<title>How to Remove the Related Links Section</title>
	<body>
		<p>Suppose you want the <i>related links</i> sections to be removed from the PDF output.</p>
		<p>To add this functionality using an <i>Oxygen Publishing Template</i>, follow these steps:<ol>
				<li>If you haven't already created a Publishing Template, see <xref
						href="whr-create-publishing-template.dita"
						product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"/>
					<xref
						href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-pdf-css/topics/whr-create-publishing-template.html"
						format="html" scope="external" product="pdf-css">How to Create a Publishing
						Template</xref>.</li>
				<li>Link the folder associated with the publishing template to your current project in the
						<uicontrol product="author developer editor webhelp-responsive">Project</uicontrol>
					<uicontrol product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">Navigator</uicontrol>
					view.</li>
				<li>Using the <uicontrol product="author developer editor webhelp-responsive"
						>Project</uicontrol>
					<uicontrol product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">Navigator</uicontrol>
					view, create an <filepath>xslt</filepath> folder inside the project root folder.</li>
				<li>In this folder, create an XSL file (for example, named
						<filepath>merged2mergedExtension.xsl</filepath>) with the following
					content:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?&gt;
&lt;xsl:stylesheet xmlns:xsl="http://www.w3.org/1999/XSL/Transform"
    xmlns:xs="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema"
    exclude-result-prefixes="xs"
    version="2.0"&gt;
	
   &lt;xsl:template match="*[contains(@class, ' topic/related-links ')]"&gt;
      &lt;!-- Remove. --&gt;
   &lt;/xsl:template&gt;
&lt;/xsl:stylesheet&gt;</codeblock>
				</li>
				<li>Open the <xref href="pdf_publishing_template_contents.dita#template_descritpor_file_pdf">
						<i>template descriptor file</i>
					</xref> associated with your <i>publishing template</i> (the <i>.opt</i> file) and set the
					XSLT stylesheet created in previous step with the
						<codeph>com.oxygenxml.pdf.css.xsl.merged2merged</codeph> XSLT extension
					point:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;publishing-template&gt;
    ...
    &lt;pdf&gt;
        ...        
        &lt;xslt&gt;
            &lt;extension 
              id="com.oxygenxml.pdf.css.xsl.merged2merged"
              file="xslt/merged2mergedExtension.xsl"/&gt;
        &lt;/xslt&gt;</codeblock>
				</li>
				<li> Edit the <b>DITA Map PDF - based on HTML5 &amp;amp; CSS</b> transformation scenario. </li>
				<li> In the <uicontrol>Templates</uicontrol> tab, click the <uicontrol>Choose Custom
						Publishing Template</uicontrol> link and select your template. </li>
				<li> Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> to save the changes to the transformation scenario. </li>
				<li> Run the transformation scenario. </li>
			</ol>
		</p>
	</body>
</topic>
