<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="pdf-xslt-extensions">
  <title>XSLT Extensions for PDF Transformations</title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_n1q_cgk_54b">Since PDF output is primarily obtained by running XSLT transformations over the DITA input
      files, one customization method would be to override the default XSLT templates that are used
      by the PDF transformation.</p>
    <p id="p_o1q_cgk_54b">The <codeph>pdf-css-html5</codeph> transformation type uses two stages to transform the
      merged DITA map (the one that aggregates all the topics) to HTML5:<ol id="ol_p1q_cgk_54b">
        <li id="li_q1q_cgk_54b"><b>Stage 1</b>: Makes some changes on the <xref
            href="dcpp_debugging_the_css.dita#dcpp_debugging_the_css/merged_map_file">merged
            map</xref> and the result is a modified merged map. This stage can be altered by
          implementing the <b>com.oxygenxml.pdf.css.xsl.merged2merged</b> XSLT extension point. This
          extension overrides the stylesheets found in the following folder: <filepath><term
              keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"
            />\plugins\com.oxygenxml.pdf.css\xsl\merged2merged</filepath>.<note id="note_r1q_cgk_54b">Use this when you
            need to filter DITA content.</note></li>
        <li id="li_s1q_cgk_54b"><b>Stage 2</b>: Transforms the <xref
            href="dcpp_debugging_the_css.dita#dcpp_debugging_the_css/merged_map_file">merged
            map</xref> to HTML5 and the result is a single HTML document. This stage can be altered
          by implementing the <b>com.oxygenxml.pdf.css.xsl.merged2html5</b> XSLT extension point.
          This extension overrides the stylesheets found in the following folder: <filepath><term
              keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"
            />\plugins\com.oxygenxml.pdf.css\xsl\merged2html5</filepath>.<note id="note_t1q_cgk_54b">Use this when you
            need to change the HTML structures generated for a specific DITA element.</note></li>
      </ol></p>
    <p id="p_u1q_cgk_54b">These extension points can be used either from a <term>Publishing Template</term> or a
      DITA-OT extension plugin.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
