<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="pdf-xslt-extensions-pub-template_usecase_6_display_footnotes_below_tables">
  <title>How to Display Footnotes Below Tables</title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_bdq_cgk_54b">In your PDF output, you may want to group all the footnotes contained in a
      table just below it instead of having them displayed at the bottom of the page.</p>
    <p id="p_cdq_cgk_54b">To add this functionality, use an <i>Oxygen Publishing Template</i> and
      follow these steps:<ol id="ol_gjr_kq5_njb">
        <li conkeyref="reusables-dcpp/pt-li1" id="li_ddq_cgk_54b"/>
        <li conkeyref="reusables-dcpp/pt-li2" id="li_edq_cgk_54b"/>
        <li conkeyref="reusables-dcpp/pt-li3" id="li_fdq_cgk_54b"/>
        <li id="li_gdq_cgk_54b">In the newly created folder, create an XSL file (for example, named
            <filepath>merged2mergedExtension.xsl</filepath>) with the following
          content:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_hdq_cgk_54b">&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;xsl:stylesheet xmlns:xsl="http://www.w3.org/1999/XSL/Transform"
  xmlns:xs="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema"
  xmlns:opentopic-func="http://www.idiominc.com/opentopic/exsl/function"
  exclude-result-prefixes="xs opentopic-func" 
  version="2.0">
  
  &lt;!--
    Match only top level tables (i.e tables that are not nested in other tables),
    that contains some footnotes.
  -->
  &lt;xsl:template match="*[contains(@class, 'topic/table')]
    [not(ancestor::*[contains(@class, 'topic/table')])]
    [//*[contains(@class, 'topic/fn')]]">
    &lt;xsl:next-match>
      &lt;xsl:with-param name="top-level-table" select="." tunnel="yes"/>
    &lt;/xsl:next-match>
    &lt;!-- Create a list with all the footnotes from the current table. -->
    &lt;ol class="- topic/ol " outputclass="table-fn-container">
      &lt;xsl:for-each select=".//*[contains(@class, 'topic/fn')]">
        &lt;!--
          Try to preserve the footnote ID, if available, so that the xrefs will have a target.
        -->
        &lt;li class="- topic/li " id="{if(@id) then @id else generate-id(.)}"
          outputclass="table-fn">
          &lt;xsl:apply-templates select="node()"/>
        &lt;/li>
      &lt;/xsl:for-each>
    &lt;/ol>
  &lt;/xsl:template>
  
  &lt;!-- 
    The footnotes that have an ID must be ignored, they are accessible only 
    through existing xrefs (already present in the merged.xml file).
    
    The above template already made a copy of these footnotes in the OL element
    so it is not a problem if markup is not generated for them in the cell.
  -->
  &lt;xsl:template
    match="*[contains(@class, 'topic/entry')]//*[contains(@class, 'topic/fn')][@id]"/>
  
  &lt;!--
    The xrefs to footnotes with IDs inside table-cells. We need to recalculate
    their indexes if their referenced footnote is also in the table.
  -->
  &lt;xsl:template match="*[contains(@class, 'topic/xref')][@type='fn']
    [ancestor::*[contains(@class, 'topic/entry')]]">
    &lt;xsl:param name="top-level-table" tunnel="yes"/>
    &lt;xsl:variable name="destination" select="opentopic-func:getDestinationId(@href)"/>
    &lt;xsl:variable name="fn" select="
      $top-level-table//*[contains(@class, 'topic/fn')][@id = $destination]"/>
    &lt;xsl:choose>
      &lt;xsl:when test="$fn">
        &lt;!-- There is a reference in the table, recalculate index. -->
        &lt;xsl:variable name="fn-number" select="
          index-of($top-level-table//*[contains(@class, 'topic/fn')], $fn)"/>
        &lt;xsl:copy>
          &lt;xsl:apply-templates select="@*"/>
          &lt;xsl:apply-templates select="node() except *[contains(@class, 'hi-d/sup')]"/>
          &lt;sup>
            &lt;xsl:apply-templates select="child::*[contains(@class, 'hi-d/sup')]/@*"/>
            &lt;xsl:value-of select="$fn-number"/>
          &lt;/sup>
        &lt;/xsl:copy>
      &lt;/xsl:when>
      &lt;xsl:otherwise>
        &lt;!-- There is no reference in the table, keep original index. -->
        &lt;xsl:next-match/>
      &lt;/xsl:otherwise>
    &lt;/xsl:choose>
  &lt;/xsl:template>
  
  &lt;!-- 
    The footnotes without ID inside table-cells. They are copied in the OL element, but have 
    no xrefs pointing to them (because they have no ID), so xrefs are generated. 
  -->
  &lt;xsl:template
    match="*[contains(@class, 'topic/entry')]//*[contains(@class, 'topic/fn')][not(@id)]">
    &lt;!-- Determine the footnote index in the document order. -->
    &lt;xsl:param name="top-level-table" tunnel="yes"/>
    &lt;xsl:variable name="fn-number" select="
      index-of($top-level-table//*[contains(@class, 'topic/fn')], .)"/>
    &lt;xref type="fn" class="- topic/xref "
      href="#{generate-id(.)}" outputclass="table-fn-call">
      &lt;!-- Generate an extra &lt;sup>, identical to what DITA-OT generates for other xrefs. -->
      &lt;sup class="+ topic/ph hi-d/sup ">
        &lt;xsl:value-of select="$fn-number"/>
      &lt;/sup>
    &lt;/xref>
  &lt;/xsl:template>
  
&lt;/xsl:stylesheet></codeblock></li>
        <li id="li_idq_cgk_54b">Open the <xref
            href="pdf_publishing_template_contents.dita#template_descritpor_file_pdf"><i>template
              descriptor file</i></xref> associated with your <i>publishing template</i> (the
            <i>.opt</i> file) and set the XSLT stylesheet created in the previous step with the
            <codeph>com.oxygenxml.pdf.css.xsl.merged2merged</codeph> XSLT extension
          point:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_jdq_cgk_54b">&lt;publishing-template&gt;
  ...
  &lt;pdf&gt;
    ...        
    &lt;xslt&gt;
      &lt;extension
        id="com.oxygenxml.pdf.css.xsl.merged2merged"/>
        file="xslt/merged2mergedExtension.xsl"
    &lt;/xslt&gt;</codeblock></li>
        <li id="li_gbq_cgk_54b">Create a <filepath>css</filepath> folder in the publishing template
          directory. In this directory, save a custom CSS file with rules that style the
            <i>glossary</i> structure. For
          example:<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_hbq_cgk_54b">/* Customize footnote calls, inside the table. */
*[outputclass ~= 'table-fn-call'] {
  line-height: none;
}

/* Customize the list containing all the table footnotes. */
*[outputclass ~= 'table-fn-container'] {
  border-top: 1pt solid black;
  counter-reset: table-footnote;
}

/* Customize footnotes display, below the table. */
*[outputclass ~= 'table-fn'] {
  font-size: smaller;
  counter-increment: table-footnote;
}
*[outputclass ~= 'table-fn']::marker {
  font-size: smaller;
  content: "(" counter(table-footnote) ")";
}

/* Customize xrefs pointing to footnotes with IDs. */
*[class ~= "topic/table"] *[class ~= "topic/xref"][type = 'fn'] {
  color: unset;
  text-decoration: none;
}
*[class ~= "topic/table"] *[class ~= "topic/xref"][type = 'fn']:after {
  content: none;
}
*[class ~= "topic/table"] *[class ~= "topic/xref"][type = 'fn'] *[class ~= "hi-d/sup"]:before {
  content: "(";
}
*[class ~= "topic/table"] *[class ~= "topic/xref"][type = 'fn'] *[class ~= "hi-d/sup"]:after {
  content: ")";
}</codeblock></li>
        <li id="li_ibq_cgk_54b">Open the <xref
            href="pdf_publishing_template_contents.dita#template_descritpor_file_pdf"><i>template
              descriptor file</i></xref> associated with your <i>publishing template</i> (the
            <filepath>.opt</filepath> file) and reference your custom CSS file in the
            <codeph>resources</codeph>
          element:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_jbq_cgk_54b">&lt;publishing-template&gt;
  ...
  &lt;pdf&gt;
    ...                
    &lt;resources&gt;            
      &lt;css file="css/custom.css"/&gt;
    &lt;/resources&gt; </codeblock></li>
        <li conkeyref="reusables-dcpp/pt-li6" id="li_kdq_cgk_54b"/>
        <li conkeyref="reusables-dcpp/pt-li7" id="li_ldq_cgk_54b"/>
        <li conkeyref="reusables-dcpp/pt-li8" id="li_mdq_cgk_54b"/>
      </ol></p>
  </body>
</topic>
