<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="pdf-css-customization">
  <title>CSS-based DITA to PDF Customization</title>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> comes bundled with a <b>DITA-OT CSS-based PDF Publishing Plugin</b>
      that combines all the topics from a map or bookmap and styles the resulting document using
      CSS. It is the base of the <b>DITA Map PDF - based on HTML5 &amp; CSS</b> transformation
      scenario.</p>
    <section id="dita_map_to_pdf__based_on_html5_and_css_transform">
      <title>DITA Map to PDF - based on HTML5 and CSS Transformation Type</title>
      <p>This transformation type uses a CSS-based processing engine and HTML5 as an intermediate
        format. For this transformation, the <codeph>pdf-css-html5</codeph> transtype is used.
        Because the structure of the HTML5 intermediate format resembles the one used in WebHelp
        output, it is possible to reuse parts of your CSS file you developed for a WebHelp
        customization.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="dita_map_pdf__based_on_dita_and_css_wysiwyg_trans">
      <title>DITA Map PDF - based on DITA and CSS (WYSIWYG) Transformation Type (Deprecated)</title>
      <p>This transformation type converts DITA maps to PDF using a CSS-based processing engine and
        a merged DITA map (one with all topics expanded inline) as an intermediate format. For this
        transformation, the <codeph>pdf-css</codeph> transtype is used. This transformation scenario
        was deprecated starting with version 21.0. It is recommended to use the <xref
          href="ditamap-pdf-css-html5.dita"><b>DITA Map PDF - based on HTML5 &amp; CSS </b>
          transformation scenario</xref> instead.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="ditamap-pdf-css-html5.dita"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
