<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE troubleshooting PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Troubleshooting//EN" "troubleshooting.dtd">
<troubleshooting id="performance-problems-large-documents">
  <title>Performance Issues with Large Documents</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Performance issues</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <troublebody><condition id="problem">
      <title>Problem</title>
      <p>The performance of the application slows down considerably over time when working with
        large documents.</p>
    </condition><troubleSolution>
      <cause id="cause">
        <title>Cause</title>
        <p>A possible cause is that the application needs more memory to run properly.</p>
      </cause><remedy id="solution">
      <title>Solutions</title>
        <steps-unordered>
          <step>
            <cmd><ph product="author developer editor svnClient">You can increase the maximum amount
                of memory available to <ph keyref="product"/> by <xref
                  href="set-parameter-in-startup-script.dita">setting the <b>-Xmx</b> parameter in a
                  configuration file</xref> that is specific to the platform that runs the
                application. </ph>
              <ph product="editorEclipse authorEclipse developerEclipse">You can increase the
                maximum amount of memory available to <ph keyref="product"/> by setting the
                  <userinput>-vmargs</userinput> and <userinput>-Xmx</userinput> parameters in the
                command used to launch the Eclipse platform.</ph></cmd>
            <info>
              <note type="attention">The maximum amount of memory should not be equal to the
                physical amount of memory available on the machine because in that case the
                operating system and other applications will have no memory available.</note>
            </info>
          </step>
          <step>
            <cmd product="author developer editor svnClient">When installed on a multiple user
              environment, each instance of <ph keyref="product"/> will be allocated the amount
              stipulated in the memory value. To avoid degrading the general performance of the host
              system, ensure that the amount of memory available is optimally apportioned for each
              of the expected instances.</cmd>
            <info>
              <note><ph product="author developer editor svnClient">When starting <ph
                    keyref="product"/> from the icon created on the Start menu or Desktop in Windows
                  (or from the shortcut created on the Linux desktop), the default maximum memory
                  available to the application is set to <ph product="author developer editor">40%
                    of the amount of physical RAM, but not more than 700 MB.</ph>
                  <ph product="svnClient">512 MB.</ph></ph><p><ph
                    product="author developer editor svnClient">When starting <ph keyref="product"/>
                    from a command-line script, the default maximum memory is 512
                MB.</ph></p></note>
            </info>
          </step>
        </steps-unordered>
    </remedy></troubleSolution></troublebody>
</troubleshooting>
