<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="platform-user-roles">
  <title>Platform User Roles</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>User roles</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_nlp_3hx_sdc"><ph keyref="product"/> supports two distinct user roles that can be
      assigned from the <ph product="fusion"><xref href="cf-admin-page-users.dita"/></ph><ph
        product="fusion-cloud"><xref href="cf-organization-members.dita"/> page</ph>:<ul
        id="ul_olp_3hx_sdc">
        <li id="li_plp_3hx_sdc"><b>Subject Matter Experts (SME)</b> - By default, Content Fusion
          users are assigned the Subject Matter Expert role. Users with this role can create and
          manage review tasks in the browser interface or in <term>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</term>
          and review content in review tasks that other collaborators create. This type of user role
          utilizes floating licensing model.</li>
        <li id="li_qlp_3hx_sdc"><b>Content Fusion Authors</b> - This role must be assigned to a user
          by an administrator. In addition to the features that an SME has access to, users with
          this role have access to projects and publishing features. They also have access to the
            <xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-positron-wa/ai/wa-ai-positron.html"
            scope="external" format="html"><uicontrol>AI Positron</uicontrol></xref> that provides
          various ways to use AI-generated content or suggestions while editing or reviewing
          content. This type of user role utilizes user-based licensing. Also, users with an Author
          role are directed to the <xref href="cf-projects.dita#cf-projects/projects_main_page">main
            Projects page</xref> (instead of the Review Tasks page) when they first log in to the
          application.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <section id="section_ps1_mz1_r2c">
      <title>Licensing</title>
      <p>Content Fusion licenses define the allocation of these user roles as follows:</p>
      <ul id="ul_vvr_mz1_r2c">
        <li>
          <p><b>Content Fusion Author License</b> - This license type is user-based, meaning a
            specified number of named users can be assigned as Content Fusion Authors.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p><b>SME License</b> - SME licenses operate on a floating seat model, allowing a set
            number of concurrent SME users to access the platform. The total number of SMEs can
            exceed the available seats, but only the defined number can be active at any given
            time.</p>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="section_axn_4z1_r2c"><title>Functionalities by Role</title><b>Content Fusion Author
        Capabilities:</b><ul id="ul_ilx_hgc_r2c">
        <li>
          <p>Access to <b>projects and content creation tools</b>.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Ability to <b>edit and manage content</b>.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p><b>Publishing functionality</b> for finalized content.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p><b>Review tasks functionality</b>, including:</p>
          <ul id="ul_llx_hgc_r2c">
            <li>
              <p>Creating and reviewing tasks.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
              <p><b>Overview of review tasks for a project</b>.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
              <p>Ability to <b>assign themselves to review tasks</b> within a project.</p>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Access to <b>built-in AI Positron functionality</b> when editing project files and
            reviewing task contributions.</p>
        </li>
      </ul><b>SME Capabilities:</b><ul id="ul_efr_3gc_r2c">
        <li>
          <p><b>Review tasks functionality</b>, including:</p>
          <ul id="ul_ffr_3gc_r2c">
            <li>
              <p>Creating and reviewing tasks.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
              <p>Providing <b>comments and feedback</b> on content.</p>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>No access to <b>project management or publishing</b> features. SMEs can create content
            but not directly in projects.</p>
        </li>
      </ul><note id="note_mgt_sz1_r2c" type="note">Both Content Fusion Authors and SMEs have access
        to review tasks, including the ability to create and participate in reviews. However,
        Content Fusion Authors have additional advantages in managing review tasks within a project
        and utilizing AI-powered assistance. All users, regardless of their role, can create review
        tasks from the <b>Oxygen XML Author/Editor</b> product using its <xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-addons/topics/cf-installing-configuring.html"
          format="html" scope="external"><uicontrol>Oxygen Content Fusion Connector</uicontrol>
          add-on</xref>.</note></section>
    <p>By defining these roles clearly, organizations can ensure appropriate access and
      collaboration within Content Fusion, optimizing content creation and review workflows.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
