<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="predefined-document-types">
  <title>Predefined Document Types (Frameworks)</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Predefined Document Types</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Document types (Frameworks)</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <section id="predefined_document_types">
      <title>Predefined Document Types</title>
      <p>The following predefined document types (frameworks) are fully supported in <ph
          keyref="product"/> and each of these document types include built-in transformation
        scenarios, validation, content completion<ph
          product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse">, file templates</ph>
        <ph product="developer developerEclipse"> and file templates</ph><ph
          product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse">, default CSS files for rendering
          content in <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode, and default actions for editing in
            <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode</ph>:<ul id="ul_lps_bpd_cr">
          <li><xref href="author-docbook4-doc-type.dita">DocBook 4</xref> - A document type standard
            for books, articles, and other prose documents (particularly technical
            documentation).</li>
          <li><xref href="author-docbook5-doc-type.dita">DocBook 5</xref> - An enhanced (version 5)
            document type standard designed for a variety of documents (particularly technical
            documentation).</li>
          <li><xref href="author-dita-doc-type.dita">DITA</xref> - An XML-based architecture
            designed for authoring, producing, and delivering technical information.</li>
          <li><xref href="author-dita-map-doc-type.dita">DITA Map</xref> - A document type that
            collects and organizes references to DITA topics or other maps.</li>
          <li><xref href="author-xhtml-doc-type.dita">XHTML</xref> - Extensible HyperText Markup
            Language includes the same depth of expression as HTML, but also conforms to XML
            syntax.</li>
          <li><xref href="author-tei-odd-doc-type.dita">TEI ODD</xref> - Text Encoding Initiative
            One Document Does it all is an XML-conformant specification that allows you to create
            TEI P5 schema in a literate programming style.</li>
          <li><xref href="author-teip4-doc-type.dita">TEI P4</xref> - The Text Encoding Initiative
            guidelines is a standard for the academic community that collectively define an XML
            format for text that is primarily semantic rather than presentational.</li>
          <li><xref href="author-teip5-doc-type.dita">TEI P5</xref> - The Text Encoding Initiative
            guidelines is a standard for the academic community that collectively define an XML
            format for text that is primarily semantic rather than presentational.</li>
          <li><xref href="author-jats-doc-type.dita">JATS</xref> - The NISO Journal Article Tag
            Suite is a technical standard that defines an XML format for scientific literature.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section id="other_document_types">
      <title>Other Document Types</title>
      <p><ph keyref="product"/> also provides limited support (including file templates) for a
        variety of other document types, including:<ul id="ul_xjb_r53_cr">
          <li><xref href="epub-document-type.dita">EPUB (NCX, OCF, OPF 2.0 &amp; 3.0)</xref> - A
            standard for e-book files.</li>
          <li><xref href="author-docbook-targetset-doc-type.dita">DocBook Targetset</xref> - For
            resolving cross-references when using <i>olinks</i>.</li>
          <li product="developer editor"><xref href="editing-ant-build-files.dita">Ant Build
              Scripts</xref> - A tool for automating software build processes, written in Java and
            primarily intended for use with Java.</li>
          <li product="developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse"><xref
              href="editing-xslt-stylesheets.dita">XSLT Stylesheets</xref> - A document type that
            provides a visual mode for editing XSLT stylesheets.</li>
          <li product="developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse"><xref
              href="editing-wsdl-documents.dita">WSDL</xref> - Web Services Description Language is
            an XML language for describing the functionality offered by a web service.</li>
          <li product="developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse"><xref
              href="editing-schematron.dita#editing-schematron">Schematron</xref> - For making
            assertions about the presence or absence of patterns in XML documents. This document
            type applies to the ISO Schematron version.</li>
          <li><xref href="schematron-quick-fixes.dita#schematron-quick-fixes">Schematron Quick Fixes
              (SQF)</xref> - An extension of the ISO standard Schematron, allows developers to
            define <term>QuickFixes</term> for Schematron errors.</li>
          <li><xref href="editing-stratML.dita">StratML (Part 1 &amp; 2)</xref> - Part 1 and 2 of
            the Strategy Markup Language specification.</li>
          <li product="developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse"><xref
              href="editing-xproc-scripts.dita">XProc</xref> - A document type for processing XProc
            script files.</li>
          <li product="developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse"><xref
              href="editing-xml-schema-schemas.dita">XML Schema</xref> - Documents that provide
            support for editing annotations.</li>
          <li product="author developer editor"><xref href="SVG-documents.dita">SVG</xref> -
            Scalable Vector Graphics is a language for describing two-dimensional graphics in
            XML.</li>
          <li product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse"><xref
              href="author-editing-mathml.dita">MathML</xref> - Mathematical Markup Language (2.0
            and 3.0) is an application of XML for describing mathematical notations.</li>
          <li><xref href="editing-xliff.dita#editing-xliff">XLIFF (1.2 &amp; 2.0)</xref> - XML
            Localization Interchange File Format is a standard for passing data between tools during
            a localization process.</li>
          <li><xref href="working-with-xquery.dita#working-with-xquery">XQuery</xref> - The common
            query language for XML.</li>
          <li><xref href="editing-css-stylesheets.dita#editing-css-stylesheets">CSS</xref> -
            Cascading Style Sheets is a language used for describing the look and formatting of a
            document.</li>
          <li product="author developer editor"><xref
              href="editing-less-css-stylesheets.dita#editing-less-css-stylesheets">LESS</xref> - A
            dynamic style sheet language that can be compiled into CSS.</li>
          <li product="developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse"><xref
              href="editing-relax-ng-schemas.dita#editing-relax-ng-schemas">Relax NG Schema</xref> -
            A schema language that specifies a pattern for the structure and content of an XML
            document.</li>
          <li product="developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse"><xref
              href="editing-nvdl-schemas.dita#editing-nvdl-schemas">NVDL Schema</xref> - Namespace
            Validation Dispatching Language allows you to specify sections of XML documents to be
            validated against various schemas.</li>
          <li product="developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse"><xref
              href="editing-JSON.dita#editing-JSON">JSON</xref> - JavaScript Object Notation is a
            lightweight data-interchange format.</li>
          <li><xref href="editing-JavaScript.dita#editing-JavaScript">JavaScript</xref> -
            Programming language of HTML and the Web.</li>
          <li>XML Spec - A markup language for W3C specifications and other technical reports.</li>
          <li>DITAVAL - DITA conditional processing profile to identify the values you want to
            conditionally process for a particular output, build, or other purpose. </li>
          <li>Daisy - A technical standard for digital audio books, periodicals, and computerized
            text. It is designed to be an audio substitute for print material.</li>
          <li>EAD - Encoded Archival Description is an XML standard for encoding archival finding
            aids.</li>
          <li>KML - Keyhole Markup Language is an XML notation for expressing geographic
            visualization in maps and browsers.</li>
          <li>Maven Project &amp; Settings - Project or settings file for Maven build automation
            tool that is primarily used for Java projects.</li>
          <li>Oasis XML Catalog - A document that describes a mapping between external entity
            references and locally-cached equivalents.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse">
    <link href="dg-complex-customization-tutorial.dita#dg-complex-customization-tutorial"/>
    <link href="preferences-document-type-association.dita#preferences-document-type-association"/>
  </related-links>
</topic>
