<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/reference.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-dita">
  <title>DITA Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Preferences<indexterm>DITA</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>DITA preferences</indexterm>
        <indexterm>DITA-OT preferences</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>To access the DITA Preferences page, <ph
        conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to
        <uicontrol>DITA</uicontrol>. This preferences page includes the following sections and
      options:</p>
    <p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry id="DITA-OT-section">
          <dt>DITA Open Toolkit section</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>This section allows you to specify the default directory of the DITA Open Toolkit
              distribution (bundled with the <ph keyref="product"/> installation) to be used for
              validating and publishing DITA content. You can select from the following:</p>
            <p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry id="ditaOT2x-dlentry">
                  <dt>Built-in DITA-OT 3.x</dt>
                  <dd><ph keyref="product"/> comes bundled with DITA-OT <ph keyref="DITAOTVersion"
                    />. By default, all defined DITA transformation/validation scenarios will run
                    with this version. This also provides access to DITA 1.3 features (including
                    document templates). The default DITA-OT <ph keyref="DITAOTVersion"/> directory
                    is: <filepath><term conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
                        />/frameworks/dita/<term conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/dita-ot-folder"
                      /></filepath>.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="custom">
                  <dt>Custom</dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p>Allows you to specify a custom directory for your DITA-OT distribution.</p>
                    <p>
                      <dl>
                        <dlentry>
                          <dt>Location</dt>
                          <dd>You can either provide a new file path for the specific DITA-OT that
                            you want to use or select a previously used one from the drop-down list.
                              <ph conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/specify-path-without-drop-down"
                            /></dd>
                        </dlentry>
                      </dl>
                    </p>
                    <p>
                      <note type="important">Using a custom DITA Open Toolkit may disable certain
                        features in the application. Examples of features that may not work
                          properly:<ul id="ul_wyz_mgv_lkb">
                          <li>If the custom DITA-OT is missing certain publishing plugins, default
                            transformation scenarios such as <xref href="wh-responsive-output.dita"
                              >DITA Map WebHelp Responsive</xref> or <xref
                              href="ditamap-pdf-css-html5.dita">DITA Map PDF - based on HTML5 &amp;
                              CSS</xref> may no longer work properly.</li>
                          <li>Validation of Markdown documents using Schematron may not work because
                            it is based on a certain DITA Open Toolkit plugin.</li>
                          <li>The DITA framework (defined in the <menucascade>
                              <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
                              <uicontrol>Document Type Associations</uicontrol>
                            </menucascade> page) will use the XML catalogs specified in the DITA-OT
                            configured in the <menucascade>
                              <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
                              <uicontrol>DITA</uicontrol>
                            </menucascade> page to perform the validation of all DITA topic types.
                            If this DITA-OT is different from the one that comes bundled with the
                              <ph keyref="product"/> default distribution, you might encounter
                            validation-related issues.</li>
                        </ul></note>
                      <note type="caution"><ph keyref="product"/> support engineers cannot offer
                        support and troubleshooting assistance for a custom DITA-OT. If you discover
                        any issues or inconsistent behavior while using a custom DITA-OT, you should
                        revert to the default built-in DITA-OT.</note>
                    </p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Enable DITA 2.0 editing support (Experimental)</dt>
          <dd>If selected, you will have access to a <uicontrol>DITA 2.0</uicontrol> folder in the
              <xref href="new-dialog-sa.dita" product="author developer editor"/><xref
              href="new-dialog-eclipse.dita" product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
            /> where you can find new document templates for creating DITA 2.0 maps or topics based
            on the DITA 2.0 standard DTDs. For example, in a DITA topic based on the DITA 2.0 DTDs,
            you can insert an <xmlelement>include</xmlelement> element that is not found in the DITA
            1.3 DTDs.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
