<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-xslt">
  <title>XSLT Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Preferences<indexterm>XSLT</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>XSLT preferences</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>To configure the <uicontrol>XSLT</uicontrol> options, <ph
        conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>XML</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>XSLT-XQuery</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>XSLT</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>.</p>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> offers the possibility of using an XSLT transformer implemented in
      Java (other than the XSLT transformers that come bundled with <ph keyref="product"/>). To use
      another XSLT transformer, specify the name of the transformer factory class. <ph
        keyref="product"/> sets this transformer factory class as the value of the Java property:
        <i>javax.xml.transform.TransformerFactory</i>.</p>
    <p>The XSLT preferences page allows you to customize the following options:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>JAXP XSLT Transformer - Value</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Allows you to set the value of the <codeph>TransformerFactory</codeph> Java
            class.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse">
          <dt><uicontrol>Validation engine - XSLT 1.0</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Allows you to select the XSLT engine to be used for validation of XSLT 1.0
            documents.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse">
          <dt><uicontrol>Validation engine - XSLT 2.0</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Allows you to select the XSLT engine to be used for validation of XSLT 2.0
            documents.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse">
          <dt><uicontrol>Validation engine - XSLT 3.0</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Allows you to select the XSLT engine to be used for validation of XSLT 3.0
              documents.<note>Saxon-HE does not implement any XSLT 3.0 features. Saxon-PE implements
              a selection of XSLT 3.0 (and XPath 3.1) features, with the exception of
              schema-awareness and streaming. Saxon-EE implements additional features relating to
              streaming (processing of a source document without constructing a tree in memory. For
              further details about XSLT 3.0 conformance, go to <xref
                href="http://www.saxonica.com/documentation/index.html#!conformance/xslt30"
                format="html" scope="external"/>.</note></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse">
          <dt><uicontrol>XSLT Editor Content Completion Options</uicontrol> link</dt>
          <dd>Use this link to switch to the <xref
              href="preferences-content-completion-xsl.dita#preferences-content-completion-xsl"
                ><uicontrol>XSLT Content Completion</uicontrol> preferences page</xref>, where you
            can configure the XSLT content completion options.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </body>
</topic>
