<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-fonts">
  <title>Fonts Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Configure the Application<indexterm>fonts</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>To configure the <uicontrol>Fonts</uicontrol> options, <ph
        conkeyref="reusable.menus/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Fonts</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>.</p>
    <p>The following options are available:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p product="author developer editor"><uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol> - This option sets the
          fonts used in the <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> and <uicontrol>Grid</uicontrol> mode.</p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p product="svnClient"><uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol> - This option sets the fonts used in
          the Text mode.</p>
        <note>On Mac OS X, the default font, Monaco, cannot be rendered in bold.</note>
      </li>
      <li product="editor author"><uicontrol>Author default font</uicontrol> - This option sets the
        default font used <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode. The default font will be overridden by
        the fonts specified in any CSS file associated with the opened document.</li>
      <li product="developer editor"><uicontrol>Schema default font</uicontrol> - This option sets
        the font used in:<ul>
          <li>The <uicontrol>Design</uicontrol> mode of the <xref keyref="editing-XML-schemas">XML
              Schema editor</xref></li>
          <li>Images with schema diagram fragments that are included in the HTML documentation
            generated from an XML Schema</li>
        </ul></li>
      <li product="editor author svnClient developer"><uicontrol>Text antialiasing</uicontrol> -
        This option sets the text anti-aliasing behavior:<ul>
          <li><uicontrol>Default</uicontrol> - allows the application to use the setting of the
            operating system, if available.</li>
          <li><uicontrol>On</uicontrol> - sets the text anti-aliasing to pixel level.</li>
          <li><uicontrol>Off</uicontrol> - disables text anti-aliasing.</li>
          <li>sub-pixel anti-aliasing modes, like GASP, LCD_HRGB, LCD_HBGR, LCD_VRGB, and
            LCD_VBGR.</li>
        </ul></li>
      <li product="editor author svnClient developer"><uicontrol>Text components</uicontrol> - This
        option sets the font used in text boxes in the interface. After changing the font, restart
        the application for the change to take full effect.</li>
      <li product="editor author svnClient developer"><uicontrol>GUI</uicontrol> - This option sets
        the font used for user interface labels. After changing the font, restart the application
        for the change to take full effect.</li>
    </ul>
    <ul product="editorEclipse authorEclipse developerEclipse">
      <li><uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> - This option sets the font used in
          <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode. There are two options available:<ul>
          <li><uicontrol>Map to text font</uicontrol> - Uses the same font as the one set in
              <uicontrol>General</uicontrol> / <uicontrol>Appearance</uicontrol> / <uicontrol>Colors
              and Fonts</uicontrol> for the basic text editor.</li>
          <li><uicontrol>Customize</uicontrol> - Allows you to choose a specific font.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li><uicontrol product="editorEclipse authorEclipse">Author</uicontrol> - This option sets the
        font to be used in <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode.</li>
    </ul>
    <?oxy_delete author="Mark" timestamp="20140811T144423-0400" content="&lt;p product=&quot;author developer editor&quot;&gt;To edit the fields use the &lt;uicontrol&gt;Choose&lt;/uicontrol&gt; and &lt;uicontrol&gt;Reset&lt;/uicontrol&gt; buttons available next to each value. The &lt;uicontrol&gt;Choose&lt;/uicontrol&gt; button opens a dialog that allows you to configure the &lt;uicontrol&gt;Font family&lt;/uicontrol&gt;, the &lt;uicontrol&gt;Font size&lt;/uicontrol&gt; and whether the text is rendered bold. A preview window is also available. The &lt;uicontrol&gt;Reset&lt;/uicontrol&gt; button restores the setting to their default values. &lt;/p&gt;&lt;p product=&quot;authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse&quot;&gt;To edit the fields use the &lt;uicontrol&gt;Change&lt;/uicontrol&gt; and &lt;uicontrol&gt;Reset&lt;/uicontrol&gt; buttons available in each section of the &lt;uicontrol&gt;Fonts&lt;/uicontrol&gt; preferences page. The &lt;uicontrol&gt;Change&lt;/uicontrol&gt; button opens a dialog that allows you to configure the &lt;uicontrol&gt;Font family&lt;/uicontrol&gt;, &lt;uicontrol&gt;Font size&lt;/uicontrol&gt;, &lt;uicontrol&gt;Font style&lt;/uicontrol&gt;, &lt;uicontrol&gt;Effects&lt;/uicontrol&gt;, &lt;uicontrol&gt;Color&lt;/uicontrol&gt; and &lt;uicontrol&gt;Script&lt;/uicontrol&gt;. A preview window is also available. The &lt;uicontrol&gt;Reset&lt;/uicontrol&gt; button restores the setting to their default values.&lt;/p&gt;"?>
  </body>
  <?oxy_comment_start author="Mark" timestamp="20140811T144515-0400" comment="The interface explains these options fully. This text adds nothing that you cannot see in the interface."?>
</topic>
<?oxy_comment_end?>

