<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-project-level-settings">
  <title>Project Level Settings Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Preferences<indexterm>Project Level Settings</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Project Level Settings preferences</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_wvn_bgk_54b">The <uicontrol>Project Level Settings</uicontrol> preference page allows you to decide
      whether various settings should be saved in the project configuration file or in the global
      settings. Settings that are saved at project level can easily be shared with others. To
      configure these options, <ph conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"
      /> and go to <uicontrol>Project Level Settings</uicontrol>.</p>
    <p id="p_xvn_bgk_54b">The following options can be toggled on or off to determine which settings will be saved at
      project level:<dl id="dl_yvn_bgk_54b">
        <dlentry id="dlentry_zvn_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Allow validation scenario associations to be saved at project
              level</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>When this option is selected, the associations for <xref
              href="create-validation-scenario.dita">custom validation scenarios</xref> will be
            stored according to their storage location.<ul id="ul_n11_ykl_ytb">
              <li>If you associate a scenario that is stored at the project or framework level, the
                association will be saved at project level (in the project configuration file).</li>
              <li>If you associate a scenario at global level, it will be saved globally.</li>
            </ul>If this option is not selected, the association is not allowed to be saved at
            project level and will be saved globally (even if the scenario is saved in the project
            file).</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_awn_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Allow transformation scenario associations to be saved at project
              level</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>When this option is selected, the associations for <xref
              href="defining-new-transformation-scenario.dita">custom transformation
              scenarios</xref> will be stored according to their storage location. <ul
              id="ul_dx1_dll_ytb">
              <li>If you associate a scenario that is stored at the project or framework level, the
                association will be saved at project level (in the project configuration file).</li>
              <li>If you associate a scenario at global level, it will be saved globally.</li>
            </ul></dd>
          <dd>If this option is not selected, the association is not allowed to be saved at project
            level and will be saved globally (even if the scenario is saved in the project
            file).</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="author editor" id="dlentry_bwn_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Save current DITA root map at project level</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>When this option is selected, when you change the <xref
              href="dita-maps-manager.dita#dita-maps-manager/root-map">currently selected DITA
              context root map</xref>, it will be saved in the project configuration file.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="author editor" id="dlentry_cwn_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Save DITA media working sets at project level</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>When this option is selected, all <xref
              href="dita-reusable-components-view.dita#dita-reusable-components-view/media_tab"
              >configured working sets for DITA media resources</xref> will be saved in the project
            configuration file.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="author editor" id="dlentry_dwn_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Save DITA map validate and check for completeness settings at project
              level</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>When this is selected, the options chosen in the <xref href="dita-map-validate.dita"
              >DITA Map Validate and Check for Completeness dialog box</xref> will be saved in the
            project configuration file.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </body>
</topic>
