<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-colors-sh">
  <title>
    <ph product="editor author developer">Colors</ph>
    <ph product="editorEclipse authorEclipse developerEclipse">Syntax Highlight</ph>
    Preferences</title><prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm product="editor author developer">Configure the Application<indexterm>Editor
              preferences<indexterm>colors</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm><indexterm product="authorEclipse editorEclipse developerEclipse">Configure the
            Application<indexterm>Editor preferences<indexterm>syntax
            highlight</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> supports syntax highlight for XML, <ph
        product="editor editorEclipse developer developerEclipse">DTD, Relax NG (XML and Compact
        Syntax), Java, </ph>JavaScript / JSON<ph product="developer editor">, Ant</ph>, PHP,CSS<ph
        product="editor editorEclipse developer developerEclipse">, XQuery, C++, C, Perl,
        Properties, SQL, Shell and Batch</ph> documents. While <ph keyref="product"/> provides a
      default color configuration for highlighting the tokens, you can choose to customize it, using
      the <ph product="editor author developer">Colors</ph>
      <ph product="editorEclipse authorEclipse developerEclipse">Syntax Highlight</ph> options
      panel.</p>
    <p>To open the <ph product="editor author developer">Colors</ph>
      <ph product="editorEclipse authorEclipse developerEclipse">Syntax Highlight</ph> preferences
      page go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol product="editor author developer">Options</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol product="editorEclipse authorEclipse developerEclipse">Window</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol product="editorEclipse developerEclipse">oXygen XML Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol product="authorEclipse">Author</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol product="editor author developer">Colors</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol product="editorEclipse authorEclipse developerEclipse">Syntax
          Highlight</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>.</p>
    <p>Each document type has an associated set of tokens. When a document type node is expanded,
      the associated tokens are listed. For each token, you can customize the color and the font
      style. These properties are used in <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode of the editor panel. The
      tokens for XML documents are used also in XSD, XSL, RNG documents.<note>The
          <uicontrol>Preview</uicontrol> area contains 4 tabs that allow you to preview XML, XSD,
        XSL, RNG sample files as they are rendered in <ph
          keyref="product"/>.</note>When you do not
      know the name of the token that you want to configure, select a token by clicking directly on
      that type of token in the <uicontrol>Preview</uicontrol> area.</p>
    <p>You can edit the following color properties of the selected token:</p>
    <ul>
      <li id="foreground-color"><uicontrol>Foreground</uicontrol> - The
          <uicontrol>Foreground</uicontrol> button opens a color dialog that allows setting the
        color properties for the selected token with one of the following color models: Swatches,
        HSB, or RGB;<ul product="editor author developer">
          <li><uicontrol>Swatches</uicontrol> - Displays a color palette containing a variety of
            colors from across the color spectrum and shades thereof. Select a color;</li>
          <li><uicontrol>HSB</uicontrol> - Hue, Saturation and Brightness (HSB) enables you to
            specify a color by describing it using hue, saturation, and brightness;</li>
          <li><uicontrol>RGB</uicontrol> - Red, Green and Blue (RGB) enables you to specify a color
            using triplets of red, green, and blue numbers;</li>
        </ul><note>You can also open the dialog for changing the foreground color of a token by
          double-clicking (or pressing <i>Enter</i>) on the tree node that corresponds to that
          token.</note></li>
      <li id="background-color"><uicontrol>Background</uicontrol> - The
          <uicontrol>Background</uicontrol> button opens the same color dialog as the
          <uicontrol>Foreground</uicontrol> button;</li>
      <li><uicontrol>'&lt;' &amp; '>' color</uicontrol> - available only for <menucascade>
          <uicontrol>XML</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Tag</uicontrol>
        </menucascade>, this option specifies the color of the <codeph>&lt;</codeph> and
          <codeph>></codeph> XML tags;</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Bold style</uicontrol> - This checkbox enables the bold variant of the font for
        the selected token. This property is not applied to a bidirectional document;</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Italic style</uicontrol> - This checkbox enables the italic variant of the font
        for the selected token. This property is not applied to a bidirectional document.</li>
    </ul>
    <p>The <uicontrol>Enable nested syntax highlight</uicontrol> option controls if different content
      types mixed in the same file (like PHP, JS and CSS scripts inside an HTML file) are
      highlighted according with the color schemes defined for each content type.</p>
  </body>
</topic>