<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-open-find-resources">
  <title>Open/Find Resource Preferences Page</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Preferences<indexterm>Open/Find Resource</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Open/Find resource preferences</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Search preferences</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_ifr_bgk_54b">You can configure various options that pertain to the <xref
        href="open-find-resource-dialog.dita#open-find-resource-dialog"><uicontrol>Open/Find
          Resource</uicontrol> dialog box</xref> and <xref
        href="open-find-resource-view.dita#open-find-resource-view"><uicontrol>Open/Find
          Resource</uicontrol> view</xref>. To access these options, <ph
        conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to
        <uicontrol>Open/Find Resource</uicontrol>. </p>
    <p id="p_jfr_bgk_54b">The following options are available in this <uicontrol>Open/Find Resource</uicontrol>
      preferences page:<dl id="dl_kfr_bgk_54b">
        <dlentry id="refresh-index">
          <dt><uicontrol>Refresh index when opening a map in DITA Maps Manager</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected, DITA maps that are opened in the DITA Maps Manager will automatically be
            re-indexed.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Only index files referenced in the context DITA map as
              "resource-only"</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected, only files referenced as "resource-only" in the context DITA Map or in
            its referenced sub maps are indexed. By default the setting is not selected. <note
              id="note_nws_y5m_twb" type="tip">It makes sense to enable this setting if the current
              opened project contains lots of resources to speed up computation of the reusable
              components displayed in the <uicontrol>DITA Reusable Components</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Components</uicontrol> tab.</note></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_lfr_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Limit search results to</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the maximum number of results that are displayed in the <xref
              href="open-find-resource-dialog.dita#open-find-resource-dialog"><uicontrol>Open/Find
                Resource</uicontrol> dialog box/view</xref>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_mfr_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Enable searching in content</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>This option is selected by default and it allows you to use the <xref
              href="open-find-resource-dialog.dita#open-find-resource-dialog"><uicontrol>Open/Find
                Resource</uicontrol> dialog box/view</xref> to search in content or reviews, as well
            as in file paths. If this option is not selected, you can only use the
              <uicontrol>Open/Find Resource</uicontrol> feature to search in file paths.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_nfr_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Content search scope</uicontrol> section</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_ofr_bgk_54b">
              <dl id="dl_pfr_bgk_54b">
                <dlentry id="dlentry_qfr_bgk_54b">
                  <dt><uicontrol>Ignore content of these files</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Allows you to select specific directories, files, or file types that are
                    ignored when you perform a search. For example, <filepath>*.txt</filepath>
                    ignores all the <filepath>.txt</filepath> files, <filepath>*/topics/*</filepath>
                    ignores all the files from the <filepath>topics</filepath> directory, regardless
                    of their depth, and <filepath>file:/C:/tmp/*</filepath> ignores everything from
                    the <filepath>tmp</filepath> directory.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_ogz_j5s_vsb">
                  <dt><uicontrol>Include the contents of these binary files</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Results from a search in the <xref
                      href="open-find-resource-dialog.dita#open-find-resource-dialog"
                        ><uicontrol>Open/Find Resource</uicontrol> dialog box/view</xref> will be
                    returned as a PDF if the PDF contains the searched text. If you want to disable
                    this feature, delete the contents of the text field.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_rfr_bgk_54b">
                  <dt><uicontrol>Index the content of remote resources</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Controls the indexing of resources that are not local. For example, the
                    resources referenced in a <xref keyref="glossentry_ditamap"><term>DITA
                        map</term></xref> opened from a remote server (from a CMS or from a WebDAV
                    location) are not indexed by default. To index the content of these resources,
                    select this option.<note id="note_sfr_bgk_54b">Selecting this option may lead to delays when the
                      indexing is computed.</note></dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_tfr_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Content search options</uicontrol> section</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_ufr_bgk_54b">
              <dl id="dl_vfr_bgk_54b">
                <dlentry id="dlentry_wfr_bgk_54b">
                  <dt><uicontrol>Content language</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Use this option to specify a language for the search engine to use for the
                    current document. This is helpful if you have multiple languages within the
                    content of a document. The search engine will use a set of <term>stop
                      words</term> and analyzers tuned specifically for that specific language. By
                    default, it is mapped to the <xref keyref="options_global/language">UI language
                      specified in the <uicontrol>Global</uicontrol> preferences page</xref>.
                    Therefore, you need to change this option only if the language of the text you
                    want to perform the search in differs from the UI language.<note type="tip" id="note_xfr_bgk_54b">If
                      you select <uicontrol>&lt;Generic language (no stemming)></uicontrol> from the
                      drop-down list, no word stemming is performed when creating the index. This
                      might be useful if your content has many technical terms that should be
                      indexed as they are.</note></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_yfr_bgk_54b">
                  <dt><uicontrol>Stop words</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>A list of <term>stop words</term> that will be filtered out of the search
                    processing. The list is automatically populated based upon the specified
                      <uicontrol>Content language</uicontrol>, but you can add or remove words from
                    the list. </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_zfr_bgk_54b">
                  <dt><uicontrol>When searching in content, return</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>This option specifies how matches are returned when doing searches in content.
                    You can choose between two options:<ul id="ul_agr_bgk_54b">
                      <li id="li_bgr_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Exact matches</uicontrol> - The search results match the exact
                        whole words that you enter in the search field of the <uicontrol>Open/Find
                          Resource</uicontrol> dialog box/view.</li>
                      <li id="li_cgr_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Prefix matches</uicontrol> (default) - The search results match
                        documents that contain words starting with the search terms. For instance,
                        searching for "pref page" will also find documents containing "preference
                        page".</li>
                    </ul></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_dgr_bgk_54b">
                  <dt><uicontrol>Automatically join search terms using:</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Allows you to select the default boolean operator that <ph keyref="product"/>
                    applies when you perform a search. For example, if the AND operator is selected
                    and you search for "car assembly", the matches must contain both of the words.
                    If you choose OR, the matches must contain one of the selected search terms and
                    results that contain both words are promoted to the top of the list.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_egr_bgk_54b">
                  <dt id="enable-xml-aware"><uicontrol>Enable XML-aware searching</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p id="p_fgr_bgk_54b">When selected, you can perform <xref href="using-open-find-resources.dita"
                        >XML-specific searches</xref> for XML elements and
                        attributes.<note id="note_ggr_bgk_54b">Selecting this option may slow down the indexing of your
                        documents and increase the index size on the disk.</note></p>
                    <p id="p_hgr_bgk_54b">
                      <dl id="dl_igr_bgk_54b">
                        <dlentry id="dlentry_jgr_bgk_54b">
                          <dt><uicontrol>Index files with size less than (KB)</uicontrol></dt>
                          <dd>Since indexing can be slowed down when the <xref
                              href="#preferences-open-find-resources/enable-xml-aware" format="dita"
                                ><uicontrol>Enable XML-aware searching</uicontrol> option</xref> is
                            active, you can use this option to set a maximum file size to be
                            indexed.</dd>
                        </dlentry>
                      </dl>
                    </p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_kgr_bgk_54b">
                  <dt><uicontrol>Stop Words</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>A list of comma-separated <term>stop words</term>, meaning that the words
                    added in this list are filtered out prior to processing a search query.</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </body>
  <related-links>
      <link href="open-find-resource-view.dita#open-find-resource-view"/>
      <link href="open-find-resource-dialog.dita#open-find-resource-dialog"/>
  </related-links>
</topic>
