<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-xquery">
  <title>XQuery Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Preferences<indexterm>XQuery</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>XQuery preferences</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>To configure the <uicontrol>XQuery</uicontrol> options, <ph
        conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>XML</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>XSLT-XQuery</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>XQuery</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>.</p>
    <p>The following generic XQuery preferences are available:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Validation engine</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Allows you to select the processor that will be used to validate XQuery documents. If
            you are validating an XQuery file that has an associated validation scenario, <ph
              keyref="product"/> uses the processor specified in the scenario. If no validation
            scenario is associated, but the file has an associated transformation scenario, the
            processor specified in the scenario is used. If the processor does not support
            validation or if no scenario is associated, then the value from this combo box will be
            used as validation processor.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="size-limit">
          <dt><uicontrol>Size limit of Sequence view (MB)</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>When the result of an XQuery transformation is set as a sequence (<xref
              href="output-xml-xquery.dita#output-xml-xquery"><uicontrol>Present as a
                sequence</uicontrol> option</xref>) in the transformation scenario, the size of one
            chunk of the result that is fetched from the database in lazy mode in one step is set in
            this option.<ph product="developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse"> If this limit
              is exceeded, go to the <xref
                href="transform-xquery-sequence-view.dita#transform-xquery-sequence-view"
                  ><uicontrol>Sequence</uicontrol> view</xref> and click <uicontrol>More results
                available</uicontrol> to extract more data from the database.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Format transformer output</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Specifies whether or not the output of the transformer is formatted and indented
              (<xref keyref="glossentry_pretty-print"><term>pretty-print</term></xref>).<note>This
              option is ignored if you choose <xref href="output-xml-xquery.dita#output-xml-xquery"
                  ><uicontrol>Present as a sequence</uicontrol></xref> (lazy extract data from a
              database) from the associated transformation scenario.</note></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Create structure indicating the type nodes</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected, <ph keyref="product"/> takes the results of a query and creates an XML
            document containing copies of all items in the sequence, suitably wrapped.<note>This
              option is ignored if you choose <xref href="output-xml-xquery.dita#output-xml-xquery"
                  ><uicontrol>Present as a sequence</uicontrol></xref> (lazy extract data from a
              database) from the associated transformation scenario.</note></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </body>
</topic>
