<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-xpath">
  <title>XPath Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Preferences<indexterm>XPath</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_s3q_bgk_54b">To configure XPath options, <ph
        conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>XML</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>XSLT-XQuery</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>XPath</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>.</p>
    <p id="p_t3q_bgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> allows you to customize the following options:<dl id="dl_u3q_bgk_54b">
        <dlentry id="dlentry_v3q_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Unescape XPath expression</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected, the entities of an XPath expression that you type in the <xref
              href="xpath-builder-view.dita#xpath-builder-view"><uicontrol>XPath/XQuery
                Builder</uicontrol></xref>
            <ph product="author developer editor">and the <xref
                href="xpath-toolbar.dita#xpath-toolbar" format="dita">XPath toolbar</xref>
            </ph>are unescaped during their execution. For example, the
            expression:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_w3q_bgk_54b">//varlistentry[starts-with(@os,'&amp;#x73;')]</codeblock>is
            equivalent
            to:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_x3q_bgk_54b">//varlistentry[starts-with(@os,'s')]</codeblock></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="author developer editor" id="dlentry_y3q_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Multiple XPath results</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Select this option to display the results of an XPath expression in separate tabs in
            the <xref href="results-view.dita#results-view" format="dita"
                ><uicontrol>Results</uicontrol> view</xref>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_z3q_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>XPath Default Namespace (only for XPath version 2.0)</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the default namespace to be used for unprefixed element names. You can
            choose between the following four options:<ul id="ul_ajq_bgk_54b">
              <li id="li_bjq_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>No namespace</uicontrol> - If selected, <ph keyref="product"/>
                considers unprefixed element names of the evaluated XPath expressions as belonging
                to no namespace.</li>
              <li id="li_cjq_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Use the default namespace from the root element</uicontrol> (default
                selection) - <ph keyref="product"/> considers unprefixed element names of the
                evaluated XPath expressions as belonging to the default namespace declared on the
                root element of the XML document you are querying.</li>
              <li id="li_djq_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Use the namespace of the root</uicontrol> - If selected, <ph
                  keyref="product"/> considers unprefixed element names of the evaluated XPath
                expressions as belonging to the same namespace as the root element of the XML
                document you are querying.</li>
              <li id="li_ejq_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>This namespace</uicontrol> - If selected, you can use the corresponding
                text field to enter the namespace of the unprefixed elements.</li>
            </ul></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_fjq_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Default prefix-namespace mappings</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>You can use this table to associate prefixes with namespaces. Use these mappings when
            you want to define them globally (not for each document). Use the
              <uicontrol>New</uicontrol> button to add mappings to the list and the
              <uicontrol>Delete</uicontrol> button to remove mappings.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </body>
</topic>
