<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-author-mathml" >
  <title>MathML Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Preferences<indexterm>MathML</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>MathML preferences</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_ax4_bgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> allows you to <xref
        href="../topics/author-editing-mathml.dita#author-editing-mathml">edit
        <term>MathML</term></xref> equations and displays the results in a preview window. For a
      more advanced <i>MathML</i> editor, you can either <xref
        href="../topics/configure-mathflow-editor.dita#configure-mathflow-editor">install Wiris
          <term>MathType</term></xref> (which is a commercial product that requires a separate
      license) or use an external <term>MathML</term> editor (e.g. the <term>LibreOffice</term>
      equation editor).</p>
    <section id="using_mathflow_for_editing_andor_rendering_mathml">
      <title>Using <term>MathFlow</term> for Editing and Rendering MathML Equations
        (Deprecated)</title>
      <note id="note_tsw_cdf_1vb" type="important">The <i>MathFlow</i> editor integration has been
        marked as deprecated and was replaced with a new <xref
          href="../topics/configure-mathtype-editor.dita#configure-mathtype-editor"><i>MathType</i>
          integration</xref>.</note>
      <p id="p_bx4_bgk_54b">To configure the <i>MathML</i> editor or to enter your <i>MathFlow</i>
        license information, <ph conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/>
        and go to <menucascade product="author editor">
          <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Edit modes</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>MathML</uicontrol>
        </menucascade><menucascade product="authorEclipse editorEclipse">
          <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Edit Modes/Pages</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>MathML</uicontrol>
        </menucascade>.</p>
      <p id="p_cx4_bgk_54b">You can configure the following options:<dl id="dl_dx4_bgk_54b">
          <dlentry id="dlentry_ex4_bgk_54b">
            <dt><uicontrol>Equation minimum font size</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>The minimum size of the font used for rendering mathematical symbols when editing in
              the <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_fx4_bgk_54b">
            <dt><uicontrol>MathFlow installation directory</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>The installation folder for the <i>MathFlow</i> components product (<i>MathFlow</i>
              SDK).</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_gx4_bgk_54b">
            <dt><uicontrol>MathFlow license file</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>The license file for the <i>MathFlow</i> components product (<i>MathFlow</i>
              SDK).</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_hx4_bgk_54b">
            <dt><uicontrol>MathFlow preferred editor</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>A <i>MathML</i> formula can be edited in one of three editors of <i>MathFlow</i>
              components product (<i>MathFlow</i> SDK).<ul id="ul_k4c_kml_kq">
                <li id="li_ix4_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Structure Editor</uicontrol> (default selection) - Targets
                  professional XML workflow users.</li>
                <li id="li_jx4_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Style Editor</uicontrol> - Tailored to the needs of content
                  authors.</li>
                <li id="li_kx4_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Simple Editor</uicontrol> - Designed for applications where end-users
                  can enter mathematical equations without prior training and only the meaning of
                  the math matters.</li>
              </ul></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_lx4_bgk_54b">
            <dt><uicontrol>Save special characters</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>Specifies how special characters are saved in the XML file.<ul id="ul_mrh_knl_kq">
                <li id="li_mx4_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>As entity names</uicontrol> - Saves the characters in
                    <codeph>&amp;name;</codeph> format. It refers to a character by the name of the
                  entity that has the desired character as its replacement text. For example, the
                  Greek <i>Omega</i> character is saved as <codeph>&amp;Omega;</codeph>.</li>
                <li id="li_nx4_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>As character entities</uicontrol> (default selection) - Saves the
                  characters in a hexadecimal value, using the <codeph>&amp;#xNNN</codeph> format.
                  For example, the Greek <i>Omega</i> character is saved as
                    <codeph>&amp;#x3a9;</codeph>.</li>
                <li id="li_ox4_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>As character values</uicontrol> - Saves the characters as the actual
                  symbol. For example, the Greek <i>Omega</i> character is saved as
                    <codeph>Ω</codeph>.</li>
              </ul></dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl></p>
      <p id="p_px4_bgk_54b">More documentation is available on the <xref
        href="http://www.wiris.com/en" scope="external" format="html">Wiris <term>MathFlow</term></xref> website.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="using_an_external_tool_for_editing_mathml_equatio">
      <title>Using an External Tool for Editing MathML Equations</title>
      <p id="p_qx4_bgk_54b">
        <dl id="dl_rx4_bgk_54b">
          <dlentry id="dlentry_sx4_bgk_54b">
            <dt><menucascade>
                <uicontrol>External application</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>Command line</uicontrol>
              </menucascade></dt>
            <dd>
              <p>You can use this option to specify an external MathML application for editing
                MathML equations.</p>
              <p conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/libre-mathml"/>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
