<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-appearance">
  <title>Appearance Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Configure the interface (Change interface colors) (Change color theme)
            <indexterm>Accessibility</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Import color themes <indexterm>copy color themes</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Export color themes <indexterm>share color themes</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>This preferences page contains various options that allow you to change the appearance of the
      user interface of <ph keyref="product"/>. To configure the <uicontrol>Appearance</uicontrol>
      options, <ph conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Appearance</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>.</p>
    <p>The following options are available in the <uicontrol>Appearance</uicontrol> preferences page:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Look and Feel</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>This option allows you to change the graphic style (look and feel) of the user
            interface. Depending on the operating system, you can choose between various predefined
            style options.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Theme</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>This option allows you to choose predefined color themes that will be applied over the
            entire user interface (such as <uicontrol>Classic</uicontrol>,
              <uicontrol>Graphite</uicontrol>, or <uicontrol>Ultramarine</uicontrol>). You can also
            change various appearance related options in other preference pages for the selected
            theme by clicking on the various links in this section. The result of the applied
            modifications is displayed in the <uicontrol>XML Syntax Highlight Preview</uicontrol>
              area.<note>In MAC OS X (starting with Yosemite), if you choose
                <userinput>Graphite</userinput> for the <uicontrol>Theme</uicontrol>, it is
              recommended that you enable the <i>Use dark menu and Dock</i> option that is found in <menucascade>
                <uicontrol>System Preferences</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>General</uicontrol>
              </menucascade>. </note></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl><note>In Windows, if the <uicontrol>Look and Feel</uicontrol> option is set to its
        default value and the <uicontrol>Theme</uicontrol> option is set to
          <userinput>Classic</userinput>, <ph keyref="product"/> inherits the high contrast theme
        colors that are set in the operating system.</note><dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Reset</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Resets the theme to its default values (this option is available when the theme is
            modified).</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Rename</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Changes the name of the theme (not available for default or predefined themes).</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Delete</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Removes the selected theme (not available for default or predefined themes).</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Import</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Allows you to import a color theme from an XML theme file.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Export</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Allows you to export the current color theme into an XML theme file that can then be
            shared with others or imported into another installation of <ph keyref="product"/>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </body>
</topic>
