<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-xslt-saxon8">
  <title>Saxon-HE/PE/EE Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Configure the Application<indexterm>XSLT/FO/XQuery preferences<indexterm>Saxon
              HE/PE/EE</indexterm><indexterm>Saxon-HE/PE/EE</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>To open the <uicontrol>Saxon HE/PE/EE</uicontrol> preferences panel go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol product="editor author svnClient developer">Options</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol product="editorEclipse authorEclipse developerEclipse">Window</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol product="editorEclipse developerEclipse">oXygen XML Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol product="authorEclipse">Author</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>XML</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>XSLT/FO/XQuery</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>XSLT</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Saxon</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Saxon HE/PE/EE</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>.</p>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> allows you to configure
      the following XSLT options for the Saxon <ph
        conref="oxygenEntitiesDictionary.dita#OxygenEntities/saxon9FullVersion"/> transformer
      (editions: Home Edition, Professional, and Enterprise):</p>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><uicontrol>Use a configuration file ("-config")</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>Sets a Saxon <ph conref="oxygenEntitiesDictionary.dita#OxygenEntities/saxon9FullVersion"
          /> configuration file that is executed for XSLT transformation and validation
          processes;</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry id="saxon-option-versmsg">
        <dt><uicontrol>Version warnings ("-versmsg")</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>Warns you when the transformation is applied to an XSLT 1.0 stylesheet;</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry id="saxon-option-l">
        <dt><uicontrol>Line numbering ("-l")</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>Error line number is included in the output messages;</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry id="saxon-option-debug-trace">
        <dt><uicontrol>Debugger trace into XPath expressions (applies to debugging
            sessions)</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>Instructs the <xref product="editor editorEclipse developer developerEclipse"
            href="../tasks/steps-in-typical-debug-process.dita" format="dita">XSLT Debugger</xref>
          <ph product="author authorEclipse">XSLT Debugger</ph> to step into XPath expressions;</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><uicontrol>Expand attributes defaults ("-expand")</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>Specifies whether the attributes defined in the associated DTD or XML Schema that have
          default values are expanded in output of the transformation you are executing;</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry id="saxon-option-dtd">
        <dt><uicontrol>DTD validation of the source ("-dtd")</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>The following options are available:<dl>
            <dlentry>
              <dt><uicontrol>On</uicontrol></dt>
              <dd>Requests <term>DTD-based</term> validation of the source file and of any files
                read using the document() function;</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
              <dt><uicontrol>Off</uicontrol></dt>
              <dd>(default setting) suppresses DTD validation;</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
              <dt><uicontrol>Recover</uicontrol></dt>
              <dd>Performs DTD validation but treats the errors as non-fatal.
                <note>Any external DTD is likely to be read even if not used for validation, because
                DTDs can contain definitions of entities.</note></dd>
            </dlentry>
          </dl></dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry id="saxon-option-warnings">
        <dt><uicontrol>Recoverable errors ("-warnings")</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>Policy for handling recoverable errors in the stylesheet: Allows you to choose how
          dynamic errors are handled. One of the following options can be selected:<ul>
            <li><uicontrol>Recover silently ("silent")</uicontrol>;</li>
            <li><uicontrol>Recover with warnings ("recover")</uicontrol> - default setting;</li>
            <li><uicontrol>Signal the error and do not attempt recovery ("fatal")</uicontrol>.</li>
          </ul></dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry id="saxon-option-strip">
        <dt><uicontrol>Strip whitespaces ("-strip")</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>Strip whitespaces feature can be one of the following three options:<ul>
            <li><uicontrol>All ("all")</uicontrol> - strips all whitespace text nodes from source
              documents before any further processing, regardless of any
                <codeph>xsl:strip-space</codeph> declarations in the stylesheet, or any
                <codeph>xml:space</codeph> attributes in the source document;</li>
            <li><uicontrol>Ignorable ("ignorable")</uicontrol> - strips all ignorable whitespace
              text nodes from source documents before any further processing, regardless of any
                <codeph>xsl:strip-space</codeph> declarations in the stylesheet, or any
                <codeph>xml:space</codeph> attributes in the source document. Whitespace text nodes
              are ignorable if they appear in elements defined in the DTD or schema as having
              element-only content;</li>
            <li><uicontrol>None ("none")</uicontrol> - default setting. No whitespaces are stripped
              before further processing. However, whitespace are stripped if this is specified in
              the stylesheet using <codeph>xsl:strip-space</codeph>.</li>
          </ul></dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry id="saxon-option-opt">
        <dt><uicontrol>Optimization level ("-opt")</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>Set optimization level. The value is an integer in the range 0 (no optimization) to 10
          (full optimization); currently all values other than 0 result in full optimization but
          this is likely to change in the future. The default is full optimization; this feature
          allows optimization to be suppressed in cases where reducing compile time is important, or
          where optimization gets in the way of debugging, or causes extension functions with
          side-effects to behave unpredictably. (Note however, that even with no optimization, the
          lazy evaluation may still cause the evaluation order to be not as expected).</dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <p>The advanced options available only in Saxon PE / EE are:</p>
    <dl>
      <dlentry id="saxon-option-ext">
        <dt><uicontrol>Allow calls on extension functions ("-ext")</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>If checked, the stylesheet is allowed to call external Java functions. This does not
          affect calls on integrated extension functions, including Saxon and EXSLT extension
          functions. This option is useful when loading an untrusted stylesheet, perhaps from a
          remote site using an http:// URL; it ensures that the stylesheet cannot call arbitrary
          Java methods and thus gain privileged access to resources on your machine;</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><uicontrol>Register Saxon-CE extension functions and instructions</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>Registers the Saxon-CE extension functions and instructions when compiling a stylesheet
          using the Saxon <ph
            conref="oxygenEntitiesDictionary.dita#OxygenEntities/saxon9FullVersion"/>
            processors;<note
            conref="supported-XSLT-processors.dita#supported-XSLT-processors/saxon-ce-execution-limitation"
            product="developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse"/></dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <p>The advanced options available only in Saxon EE are:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>XML Schema version</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Use this option to change the default XML Schema version set in <menucascade>
              <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol> Preferences</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol> XML</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol> XML Parser</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol> XML Schema</uicontrol>
            </menucascade>.<note>This option is available when you configure the Saxon EE advanced
              options from a transformation scenario.</note></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="saxon-option-val">
          <dt><uicontrol>Validation of the source file ("-val")</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Requests schema-based validation of the source file and of any files read using the
              <codeph>document()</codeph> or similar functions. Validation is available only with
            Saxon-EE, and this flag automatically switches on the <codeph>-sa</codeph> option.
            Available options:<ul>
              <li><uicontrol>Schema validation ("strict")</uicontrol> - this mode requires an XML
                Schema and specifies that the source documents should be parsed with
                schema-validation enabled;</li>
              <li><uicontrol>Lax schema validation ("lax")</uicontrol> - this mode specifies if the
                source documents should be parsed with schema-validation enabled if an XML Schema is
                provided;</li>
              <li><uicontrol>Disable schema validation</uicontrol> - this specifies that the source
                documents should be parsed with schema-validation disabled.</li>
            </ul></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="saxon-option-outval">
          <dt><uicontrol>Validation errors in the results tree treated as warnings
              ("-outval")</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Normally, if validation of result documents is requested, a validation error is fatal.
            Enabling this option causes such validation failures to be treated as warnings. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="saxon-option-outval-comments">
          <dt><uicontrol>Write comments for non-fatal validation errors of the result
              document</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>The validation messages are written (where possible) as a comment in the result
            document itself;</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="generate_bytecode_option">
          <dt><uicontrol>Generate bytecode ("--generateByteCode:(on|off)")</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>When you enable this option, Saxon-EE attempts to generate Java bytecode for
            evaluation of parts of a query or stylesheet that are amenable to such treatment. For
            further details regarding this option, go to<xref
              href="http://www.saxonica.com/documentation/javadoc/" format="html#GENERATE_BYTE_CODE"
              scope="external">http://www.saxonica.com/documentation/javadoc/</xref>;</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Initializer class</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Equivalent with the <term>-init</term> Saxon command-line argument. The value is the
            name of a user-supplied class that implements the
              <apiname>net.sf.saxon.lib.Initializer</apiname> interface; this initializer is called
            during the initialization process, and may be used to set any options required on the
            configuration programmatically. It is particularly useful for tasks such as registering
            extension functions, collations, or external object models, especially in Saxon-HE where
            the option cannot be set via a configuration file. Saxon only calls the initializer when
            running from the command line, but the same code may be invoked to perform
            initialization when running user application code.<note type="important">The <xref
                href="xslt-tab.dita#xslt-tab/advanced-options">advanced Saxon-HE/PE/EE options
                configured in a transformation scenario</xref> override the Saxon-HE/PE/EE options
              defined globally.</note></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </body>
</topic>