<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-content-completion-xpath">
  <title>XPath Preferences</title>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> provides content completeion support for XPath expressions. To
      configure the options for the content completion in XPath expressions, <ph
        conkeyref="reusable.menus/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Content Completion</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>XPath</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>.</p>
    <?oxy_delete author="Mark" timestamp="20140912T124209-0400" content="&lt;fig product=&quot;editor author developer&quot;&gt;&lt;title&gt;The Content Completion XPath Preferences Panel&lt;/title&gt;&lt;image href=&quot;../img/sa_content_completion_xpath.png&quot;/&gt;&lt;/fig&gt;&lt;fig product=&quot;editorEclipse authorEclipse developerEclipse&quot;&gt;&lt;title&gt;The Content Completion XPath Preferences Panel&lt;/title&gt;&lt;image href=&quot;../img/ec_content_completion_xpath.png&quot;/&gt;&lt;/fig&gt;"?>
    <?oxy_comment_start author="Mark" timestamp="20140912T124301-0400" comment="These graphics don&apos;t add anything to the user&apos;s understanding. (And other preferences topics don&apos;t have them.)"?>
    <p><?oxy_comment_end?>The following options are available:</p>
    <ul>
      <li><uicontrol>Enable content completion for XPath expressions</uicontrol> - Enables <ph
          product="editor editorEclipse developer developerEclipse">
          <xref href="content-completion-xpath-expressions.dita">the <uicontrol>Content Completion
              Assistant</uicontrol> in XPath expressions</xref>
        </ph>
        <ph product="author authorEclipse">the <uicontrol>Content Completion Assistant</uicontrol>
          in XPath expressions</ph> that you enter in the <codeph>match</codeph>,
          <codeph>select</codeph>, and <codeph>test</codeph> XSL attributes and also in the XPath
        toolbar.
      <ul><li><uicontrol>Include XPath functions</uicontrol>  - When this option is selected, XPath
        functions are included in the content completion suggestions.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Include XSLT functions</uicontrol> - When this option is selected, XSLT
        functions are included in the content completion suggestions.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Include axes</uicontrol> - When this option is selected, XSLT axes are included
        in the content completion suggestions.</li>
       </ul></li>
      <li><uicontrol>Show signatures of XSLT / XPath functions</uicontrol> - makes the editor
        indicate the signature of the XPath function located at the caret position in a tooltip. <ph
          product="editor editorEclipse developer developerEclipse">See the <xref
            href="xpath-tooltip-helper.dita">XPath Tooltip Helper</xref> section for more
          information.</ph>
      </li><li product="editor author developer"><uicontrol>Function signature window
          background</uicontrol> - specifies the background color of the tooltip window.</li>
      <li product="editor author developer"><uicontrol>Function signature window
          foreground</uicontrol> - specifies the foreground color of the tooltip window.</li>
    </ul>
  </body>
</topic>
