<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-xml-parser">
  <title>XML Parser Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Preferences<indexterm>XML Parser</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>XML parser preferences</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>To configure the <uicontrol>XML Parser</uicontrol> options, <ph
        conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>XML</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>XML Parser</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>.</p>
    <p>The configurable options of the built-in XML parser are as follows:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Enable parser caching (validation and content completion)</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Enables re-use of internal models when validating and provides content completion in
            open XML files that reference the same schemas (grammars) such as DTD, XML Schema, or
            RelaxNG.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Enable system parameter entity expansion in other entity
              definitions</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>This security setting controls the expansion of the DTD system parameter entities (the
            ones that are loaded from disk or from remote sources). This option is off by default,
            to protect against XXE attacks. If you enable it, make sure the XML files you are
            opening or processing with the application come from a trusted source.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Ignore the DTD for validation if a schema is specified</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Forces validation against a referenced schema (XML Schema, Relax NG schema) even if
            the document includes also a DTD DOCTYPE declaration. This option is useful when the DTD
            declaration is used only to declare DTD entities and the schema reference is used for
            validation against an XML Schema or a Relax NG schema.<note>Schematron schemas are
              treated as additional schemas. The validation of a document associated with a DTD and
              referencing a Schematron schema is executed against both the DTD and the Schematron
              schema, regardless of the value of the <uicontrol>Ignore the DTD for validation if a
                schema is specified</uicontrol> option.</note></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="enable-xinclude">
          <dt><uicontrol>Enable XInclude processing</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Enables XInclude processing. If selected, the XInclude support in <ph keyref="product"
            /> is turned on for validation<ph product="author authorEclipse editor editorEclipse">,
              rendering in <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode</ph> and transformation of XML
            documents.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Base URI fix-up</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>
            <p>According to the specification for XInclude, processors must add an
                <xmlatt>xml:base</xmlatt> attribute to elements included from locations with a
              different base URI. Without these attributes, the resulting infoset information would
              be incorrect.</p>
            <p>Unfortunately, these attributes make XInclude processing to not be transparent to
              Schema validation. One solution to this is to modify your schema to allow
                <xmlatt>xml:base</xmlatt> attributes to appear on elements that might be included
              from different base URIs.</p>
            <p>If the addition of <xmlatt>xml:base</xmlatt> and / or <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> is
              not desired by your application, you can deselect this option.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Language fix-up</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>The processor will preserve language information on a top-level included element by
            adding an <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> attribute if its included parent has a different
            [language] property. If the addition of <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt> is not allowed by your
            application, you can deselect this option.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>DTD post-validation</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Select this option to validate an XML file against the associated DTD, after all the
            content merged to the current XML file using <i>XInclude</i> was resolved. If
            you deselect this option, the current XML file is validated against the associated DTD
            before all the content merged to the current XML file using <i>XInclude</i> is
            resolved.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </body>
</topic>
