<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-colors">
  <title>Colors Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Preferences<indexterm>Colors</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Color preferences</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> allows you configure the colors for frames, dialog boxes, controls,
      and commands.  To configure the <uicontrol>Colors</uicontrol>, <ph
        conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Appearance</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Colors</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>.</p>
    <p>Clicking the color button for any of the options opens a <uicontrol>Choose color</uicontrol>
      dialog box. It includes several tabs that allow you to configure the color in numerous ways.
      This page allows you to select and configure the color for the following:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Background Colors</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Background</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Background color for various general user interface items.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Components background</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Background color for various components (such as text fields, views, tables,
                    and dialog boxes).</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Components selection background</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Background color for the current selections in certain components, such as
                    some views and panes.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Components inactive selection background</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Background color for a selection in a view that is not the current focus.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Menus, toolbars and frame backround</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Background color for specific components such as menus, toolbars, and the
                    application frame.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Menus and toolbars selection background</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>(This option is not available for Mac OS) Background color for menu selections
                    and toolbar buttons.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>View titles background</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Background color for the titles of view and tabs.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Status bar background</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Background color of the status bar at the bottom of the editor.</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Foreground Colors</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Foreground</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Foreground color for various general user interface items.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Component selection foreground</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Foreground color for the current selection.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Disabled foreground</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Foreground color for various components that are not the current focus (such
                    as views other than the currently selected one).</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Link foreground</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Foreground color for links in views and dialog boxes.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>View titles foreground</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Foreground color for the title bar of views.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Status bar foreground</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Foreground color for the text in the status bar at the bottom of the
                    editor.</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Other Colors</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Borders and table grids</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Color for certain borders and table grid lines.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Text component border</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Color for the borders of text fields and drop-down lists.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>View/Editor tabs border</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Color for the borders of views and tabs.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Scroll bars, chevrons</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Color for scroll bars (navigation bars) and chevrons (button to expand a
                    non-visible area).</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Separator</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Color for the separators in toolbars, menus, and dialog boxes.</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
    <note conkeyref="reusables-configuring-oxygen/restart-app-note"/>
  </body>
</topic>
