<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-editor-format-xml-whitespaces">
  <title>Whitespaces Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Preferences<indexterm>Whitespaces</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_jfp_bgk_54b">When <ph keyref="product"/> formats and indents XML documents, a whitespace normalization
      process is applied, thus replacing whitespace sequences with single space characters. <ph
        keyref="product"/> allows you to configure which Unicode characters are treated as spaces
      during the normalization process.</p>
    <p id="p_kfp_bgk_54b">To configure the <uicontrol>Whitespace</uicontrol> preferences, <ph
        conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Format</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>XML</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Whitespaces</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>.</p>
    <p id="p_lfp_bgk_54b">This table lists the Unicode whitespace characters. Select any that you want to have treated
      as whitespace when formatting and indenting an XML document. </p>
    <p id="p_mfp_bgk_54b">The whitespaces are normalized when<ph product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse"
        >:</ph><ph product="developer developerEclipse"> the <uicontrol>Format and
          Indent</uicontrol> action is applied on an XML document.</ph><ul id="ul_g14_cqy_3d"
        product="author authorEclipse editor editorEclipse">
        <li id="li_nfp_bgk_54b">The <uicontrol>Format and Indent</uicontrol> action is applied on an XML document.</li>
        <li id="li_ofp_bgk_54b">You switch from <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode to <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol>
          mode.</li>
        <li id="li_pfp_bgk_54b">You switch from <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode to <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol>
          mode.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <note id="note_qfp_bgk_54b">The whitespace normalization process replaces any sequence of characters declared as
      whitespaces in the <uicontrol>Whitespaces</uicontrol> table with a single space character
        (<codeph>U+0020</codeph>). If you want to be sure that a certain whitespace character will
      not be removed in the normalization process, deselect it in the
        <uicontrol>Whitespaces</uicontrol> table.</note>
    <p id="p_rfp_bgk_54b">
      <note type="important" id="note_sfp_bgk_54b">The characters with the codes <codeph>U+0009</codeph> (TAB),
          <codeph>U+000A</codeph> (LF), <codeph>U+000D</codeph> (CR) and <codeph>U+0020</codeph>
        (SPACE) are always considered to be whitespace characters and cannot be deselected. </note>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
