<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-author">
  <title>Author Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Preferences<indexterm>Editor<indexterm>Edit
              Modes<indexterm>Author</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Author mode preferences</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> provides an <xref href="author-editor.dita#author-editor"
          ><uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> editing mode</xref> that provides a configurable graphical
      interface for editing XML documents. To configure the options for the
        <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode, <ph
        conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Edit modes</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>.</p>
    <p>The following options are available:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Author default background color</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Sets the default background color of the <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> editing mode.
            The <codeph>background-color</codeph> property set in the CSS file associated with the
            currently edited document overwrites this option.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Author default foreground color</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Sets the default foreground color of the <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> editing mode.
            The <codeph>color</codeph> property set in the CSS file associated with the current
            edited document overwrites this option.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Show XML comments</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>When this option is selected, XML comments are displayed in
              <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode. Otherwise, they are hidden.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Show processing instructions</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>When this option is selected, XML processing instructions are displayed in
              <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode. Otherwise they are hidden.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Show doctype</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>When this option is selected, the <term>doctype</term> declaration is displayed in
              <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode. Otherwise it is hidden.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="show-placeholders-empty-elements">
          <dt><uicontrol>Show placeholders for empty elements</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>When this option is selected, placeholders are displayed for elements with no content
            to make them clearly visible. The placeholder is rendered as a light gray box and
            displays the element name.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Show Author layout messages</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>When this option is selected, all errors reported while rendering the document in
              <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode are presented in the <uicontrol>Errors</uicontrol>
            view at the bottom of the editor.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="author editor">
          <dt><uicontrol>Show block range</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd><ph>When this option is selected, a <term>block range indicator</term> is displayed in
              a stripe located in the left side of the editor. It is displayed as a heavy line that
              spans from the first line to the last line of the block.</ph>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="display-referenced-content">
          <dt><uicontrol>Display referenced content (entities, XInclude, DITA conref,
              etc.)</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>When selected, the references (such as entities, XInclude, DITA conrefs) also display
            the content of the resources they reference. If you toggle this option while editing,
            you need to reload the file for the modification to take effect.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
    <p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Images</uicontrol> Section</dt>
          <dd>The following options in regards to images in <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode are
            available in this section:<p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Auto-scale images wider than (pixels)</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Sets the maximum width that an image will be displayed. Wider images will be
                    scaled to fit.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol id="show-very-large-images">Show very large images</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>When this option is selected, images larger than 6 megapixels are displayed in
                      <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode. Otherwise, they are not displayed.<note
                      type="important">If you select this option and your document contains many
                      such images, <ph keyref="product"/> may consume all available memory, throwing
                      an <term>OutOfMemory error</term>. To resolve this, increase the <xref
                        href="set-parameter-in-startup-script.dita#set-parameter-in-startup-script"
                        format="dita" product="author editor">available memory limit.</xref><ph
                        product="authorEclipse editorEclipse">available memory limit.</ph> and
                      restart the application.</note></dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
    <p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry id="tags_section">
          <dt><uicontrol>Tags</uicontrol> Section</dt>
          <dd>In this section you can configure the following options in regards to tags that are
            displayed in <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode:<p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Tags display mode</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Sets the default display mode for element tags presented in
                      <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode. You can choose between the following:<ul
                      id="ul_y1n_trt_rs">
                      <li><uicontrol>Full Tags with Attributes</uicontrol> - All XML tags are
                        displayed, with attribute names and values, making it easier to transition
                        from a Text-based editing to <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode
                        editing.</li>
                      <li><uicontrol>Full Tags</uicontrol> - All XML tags are displayed, but without
                        attributes.</li>
                      <li><uicontrol>Block Tags</uicontrol> - The XML tags that enclose <xref
                          keyref="glossentry_block-element"><term>block elements</term></xref> are
                        displayed in full. Compact tags (no element names) are displayed for
                          <term>inline elements</term>.</li>
                      <li><uicontrol>Inline Tags</uicontrol> - The XML tags that enclose <xref
                          keyref="glossentry_inline-element"><term>inline elements</term></xref> are
                        displayed in full. <xref keyref="glossentry_block-element"
                            ><term>Block</term></xref> tags are not displayed.</li>
                      <li><uicontrol>Partial Tags</uicontrol> - Partial tags (no names) are
                        displayed for all elements.</li>
                      <li><uicontrol>No Tags</uicontrol> - No tags are displayed. This
                        representation is as close as possible to a word-processor view.</li>
                    </ul></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="tags-background-color">
                  <dt><uicontrol>Tags background color</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Sets the <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode tags background color.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="tags-foreground-color">
                  <dt><uicontrol>Tags foreground color</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Sets the <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode tags foreground color.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Tags font</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Allows you to change the font used to display tags text in the
                      <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> visual editing mode. The <term>[Default]</term>
                    font is computed based on the setting of the <xref
                      href="preferences-fonts.dita#preferences-fonts/author_default_font"
                        ><uicontrol>Author default font</uicontrol> option</xref>.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Compact tag layout</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>When you deselect this option, the <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode displays
                    the tags in a more decompressed layout, where block tags are displayed on
                    separate lines.</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="authorEclipse editorEclipse">
          <dt><uicontrol>Whitespaces</uicontrol> Section</dt>
          <dd>The following option is available in this section:<p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Foreground color</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Sets the foreground color of the white spaces in the
                      <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode. To enable this option, <ph
                      conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/>, go to <menucascade>
                      <uicontrol>General</uicontrol>
                      <uicontrol>Editors</uicontrol>
                      <uicontrol>Text Edtiors</uicontrol>
                    </menucascade> and select <uicontrol>Show whitespaces
                    characters</uicontrol>.</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Serialization</uicontrol> Section</dt>
          <dd>In this section you can configure options in regards to the formatting and indenting
            that is applied when a document is saved in <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode, or when
            switching the editing mode from <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> to
              <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol>. The following options are available:<p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Format and indent</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Use this option to specify what should be formatted and indented when you save
                    a document (or switch from <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> to
                      <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode). You can choose between the following two options:<p>
                      <dl>
                        <dlentry>
                          <dt><uicontrol>Only the modified content</uicontrol></dt>
                          <dd>The <uicontrol>Save</uicontrol> operation only formats the nodes that
                            were modified in the <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode. The rest of the
                            document preserves its original formatting.<note>This option also
                              applies to the DITA maps opened in the <uicontrol>DITA Maps
                                Manager</uicontrol>.</note></dd>
                        </dlentry>
                        <dlentry>
                          <dt><uicontrol>The entire document</uicontrol></dt>
                          <dd>The <uicontrol>Save</uicontrol> operation applies the formatting to
                            the entire document regardless of the nodes that were modified in
                              <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode.<p>
                              <dl>
                                <dlentry id="also-apply-format-indent">
                                  <dt><uicontrol>Also apply 'Format and Indent' action as in 'Text'
                                      edit mode</uicontrol></dt>
                                  <dd>If this option is selected, the content of the document is
                                    formatted by applying the <uicontrol>Format and
                                      Indent</uicontrol> rules from the <xref
                                      href="preferences-editor-format-xml.dita#preferences-editor-format-xml"
                                      format="dita">Editor/Format/XML</xref> option page. In this
                                    case, the result of the <uicontrol>Format and indent</uicontrol>
                                    operation will be the same as when it is applied in
                                      <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> editing mode.</dd>
                                </dlentry>
                              </dl>
                            </p></dd>
                        </dlentry>
                      </dl>
                    </p></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Compatibility with other tools</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Use this option to control how line breaks are handled when a document is
                    serialized. This will help to obtain better compatibility with other tools. You
                    can choose one of the following:<ul id="ul_szr_qw5_rs">
                      <li><uicontrol>None</uicontrol> - Choose this option if compatibility with
                        other tools can be ignored.</li>
                      <li><uicontrol>Do not break lines, do not indent</uicontrol> - Choose this
                        option to avoid breaking lines after element start or end tags and indenting
                        will not be used.<note
                          conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/formatting-note"/></li>
                      <li><uicontrol>Break lines only after elements displayed as blocks, do not
                          indent</uicontrol> - Choose this option to instruct <ph keyref="product"/>
                        to insert new lines only after elements that have a CSS display property set
                        to anything other than <codeph>inline</codeph> or <codeph>none</codeph> (for
                        example, <codeph>block</codeph>, <codeph>list-item</codeph>,
                          <codeph>table</codeph>, etc.) and indenting will not be used. When
                        selecting this option, the formatting is dictated by the CSS.<note
                          conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/formatting-note"/></li>
                    </ul></dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry
          conkeyref="reusables-configuring-oxygen/enable-mouse-wheel-zoom"
          product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">
          <dt/>
          <dd/>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="authorEclipse editorEclipse">
          <dt><uicontrol>Configure annotation tooltip</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Click this link to open the <xref
              href="preferences-content-completion-annotations.dita#preferences-content-completion-annotations"
            /> page.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>For advanced Author configuration see the Document Type Association
              settings</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Click this link to open the <ph
              conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/preferences-document-type-association"/>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
