<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/reference.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-author-messages" >
  <title>DITA Preferences</title>
  <!--Proofed-->
  <body>
    <p>To access the DITA Preferences page, <ph conkeyref="reusable.menus/open-the-preferences-page"
      /> and click on <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>DITA</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>.</p>
    <p>The <uicontrol>DITA-OT directory</uicontrol> option specifies the directory of the DITA Open
      Toolkit distribution to be used for validating and publishing DITA content. You can use this
      combo box to enter the name of a new DITA OT or use the drop-down list to select a previously
      used one.<note>The DITA Open Toolkit is bundled with the <ph keyref="product"/>
        installation.</note> The <uicontrol>DITA Maps file patterns</uicontrol> option allows you to
      set the extension of the files that will be handled as DITA maps when opened in <ph
        keyref="product"/>. <ph>If the files match the pattern that is specified in <uicontrol>DITA
          Maps file patterns</uicontrol>, you will be prompted to open them in the <uicontrol>DITA
          Maps Manager</uicontrol> view.</ph></p>
    <p product="author editor"><ph keyref="product"/> can open a DITA map in the regular editor view
      or in the <xref keyref="dita.edit-maps">DITA Maps Manager</xref>. The following options are
      available <uicontrol>When opening a map</uicontrol>:<ul id="ul_g5k_kdq_jq">
        <li><uicontrol>Always open in the DITA Maps Manager</uicontrol> - A DITA Map file is always
          opened in the <uicontrol>DITA Maps Manager</uicontrol> view.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Always open as XML</uicontrol> - A DITA Map file is always opened in the XML
          editor.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Always ask</uicontrol> - When opening a DITA Map, you are prompted to choose
          between opening it in the XML editor panel or in the <uicontrol>DITA Maps
            Manager</uicontrol> view.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p><ph id="show_console_output">The <uicontrol>Show console output</uicontrol> option allows you
        to specify whether to always display the console output log or to only display it when the
        build fails.</ph><ul id="ul_ccp_yyv_sq">
        <li><uicontrol>When build fails</uicontrol> - displays the console output log if the build
          fails.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Always</uicontrol> - displays the console output log, regardless of whether
          or not the build fails.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>
      <ph product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse">At the bottom of the page there is a
        link to the <xref href="preferences-profiling-conditions.dita#profiling.conditions"
          >Profiling Attributes preferences.</xref></ph></p>
  </body>
</topic>
