<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-grid">
  <title>Grid Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Preferences<indexterm>Grid mode</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Grid mode preferences</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_w44_bgk_54b"><ph
        product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"><ph
          keyref="product"/> provides a <xref href="grid-mode-editor.dita#grid-mode-editor"
            ><uicontrol>Grid</uicontrol> view</xref> of an XML document. </ph>To configure the
        <uicontrol>Grid</uicontrol> mode options, <ph
        conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Edit modes</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Grid</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>.</p>
    <p id="p_x44_bgk_54b">The following options are available:<dl id="dl_y44_bgk_54b">
        <dlentry id="dlentry_z44_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Compact representation</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected, the <i>compact representation</i> of the grid is used: a child
            element is displayed beside the parent element. In the <i>non-compact
              representation</i>, a child element is nested below the parent.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="format-indent-when-passing-grid-text">
          <dt><uicontrol>Format and indent when passing from grid to text or on
            save</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected, the content of the document is formatted and indented each time you
            switch from the <uicontrol>Grid</uicontrol> view to the <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol>
            view.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_ap4_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Default column width (characters)</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Sets the default width (in characters) of a table column of the grid. A column may
            contain the following:<ul id="ul_bp4_bgk_54b">
              <li id="li_cp4_bgk_54b">Element names</li>
              <li id="li_dp4_bgk_54b">Element text content</li>
              <li id="li_ep4_bgk_54b">Attribute names</li>
              <li id="li_fp4_bgk_54b">Attribute values</li>
            </ul>If the total width of the grid structure is too large you can resize any column by
            dragging the column margins with the mouse pointer, but the change is not persistent. To
            make it persistent, set the new column width with this option.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_gp4_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Active cell color</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Allows you to set the background color for the <xref keyref="glossentry_active-cell"
                ><term>active cell</term></xref> of the grid. The keyboard input always goes to the
              <term>active cell</term> and the selection always contains it.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_hp4_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Selection color</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Allows you to set the background color for the selected cells of the grid, except the
              <xref keyref="glossentry_active-cell"><term>active cell</term></xref>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_ip4_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Border color</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Allows you to set the color used for the lines that separate the grid cells.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_jp4_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Background color</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Allows you to set the background color of grid cells that are not selected.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_kp4_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Foreground color</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Allows you to set the text color of the information displayed in the grid cells.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_lp4_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Row header colors</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_mp4_bgk_54b">
              <dl id="dl_np4_bgk_54b">
                <dlentry id="dlentry_op4_bgk_54b">
                  <dt><uicontrol>Background color</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Allows you to set the background color of row headers that are not
                    selected.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_pp4_bgk_54b">
                  <dt><uicontrol>Active cell color</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Allows you to set the background color of the row header cell that is
                    currently active.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_qp4_bgk_54b">
                  <dt><uicontrol>Selection color</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Allows you to set the background color of the header cells corresponding to
                    the currently selected rows.</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_rp4_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Column header colors</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_sp4_bgk_54b">The column headers are painted with two color gradients, one for the upper 1/3 part
              of the header and the other for the lower 2/3 part. The start and end colors of the
              first gradient are set with the first two color buttons. The start and end colors of
              the second gradient are set with the last two color buttons.</p>
            <p id="p_tp4_bgk_54b">
              <dl id="dl_up4_bgk_54b">
                <dlentry id="dlentry_vp4_bgk_54b">
                  <dt><uicontrol>Background color</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Allows you to set the background color of column headers that are not
                    selected.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_wp4_bgk_54b">
                  <dt><uicontrol>Active cell color</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Allows you to set the background color of the column header cell that is
                    currently active.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_xp4_bgk_54b">
                  <dt><uicontrol>Selection color</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Allows you to set the background color of the header cells corresponding to
                    the currently selected columns.</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </body>
</topic>
