<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-schema-aware">
  <title>Schema-Aware Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Preferences<indexterm>Schema-Aware</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Smart paste preferences</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_bs4_bgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> can use the schema of your XML language to improve
      the way the <xref href="author-editor.dita#author-editor"><uicontrol>Author</uicontrol></xref>
      mode editor handles your content. To configure the <uicontrol>Schema-Aware</uicontrol>
      options, <ph conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Edit modes</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Schema-Aware</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>.</p>
    <p id="p_cs4_bgk_54b">The following options are available:<dl id="dl_ds4_bgk_54b">
        <dlentry id="schema-aware-normalization">
          <dt><uicontrol>Schema-aware normalization, format, and indent</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>When you open or save a document in <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode, white space is
            normalized using the <codeph>display</codeph> property of the current CSS stylesheet and
            the values of the <xref keyref="options_editor_format_xml"
              product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse">settings</xref><ph product="json"
              >settings</ph> for <b>Preserve space elements</b>, <b>Default space elements</b>, and
              <b>Mixed content elements</b>. When this option is selected, the schema will also be
            used to normalize white space, based on the content model (<i>element-only</i>,
              <i>simple-content</i>, or <i>mixed</i>). Note that the schema information takes
            precedence.</dd>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_es4_bgk_54b">
              <dl id="dl_fs4_bgk_54b">
                <dlentry id="dlentry_gs4_bgk_54b">
                  <dt><uicontrol>Indent blocks-only content</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>To avoid accidentally introducing inappropriate white space around <xref
                      keyref="glossentry_inline-element"><term>inline elements</term></xref>, <ph
                      keyref="product"/> does not normally apply indenting to the source of an
                    element with mixed content. If this option is selected, <ph keyref="product"/>
                    will apply indenting to the source of mixed content elements that only contain
                      <xref keyref="glossentry_block-element"><term>block
                    elements</term></xref>.</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="schema-aware-editing-section">
          <dt><uicontrol>Schema-Aware Editing</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>The options in this section determine how <ph keyref="product"/> will use the schema
            of a document to control the behavior of the <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode. <ul id="ul_hs4_bgk_54b">
              <li id="li_is4_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>On</uicontrol> - Enables all schema-aware editing options.</li>
              <li id="li_js4_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Off</uicontrol> - Disables all schema-aware editing options. </li>
              <li id="li_ks4_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Custom</uicontrol> - Allows you to select custom schema-aware editing
                options from the following:</li>
            </ul></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_ls4_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Schema-Aware Actions</uicontrol> section</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_ms4_bgk_54b">
              <dl id="dl_ns4_bgk_54b">
                <dlentry id="dlentry_os4_bgk_54b">
                  <dt><uicontrol>Delete element tags with backspace and delete</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Controls what happens when you attempt to delete an element tag. The two
                    options are:<ul id="ul_ps4_bgk_54b">
                      <li id="li_qs4_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Smart delete</uicontrol> - If deleting the tag would make the
                        document invalid, <ph keyref="product"/> will attempt to make the document
                        valid by unwrapping the current element or by appending it to an adjacent
                        element where the result would be valid. For instance, if you delete a bold
                        tag, the content can be unwrapped and become part of the surrounding
                        paragraph, but if you delete a list item tag, the list item content cannot
                        become part of the list container. However, the content could be appended to
                        a preceding list item. </li>
                      <li id="li_rs4_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Reject action when its result is invalid</uicontrol> - A
                        deletion that would leave the document in an invalid state is rejected.</li>
                    </ul></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="paste-drag-drop">
                  <dt><uicontrol>Paste and Drag and Drop</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Controls the behavior for paste and drag and drop actions. Available options are:<ul id="ul_ss4_bgk_54b">
                      <li id="smart-paste-drag-drop"><uicontrol>Smart paste and drag and
                          drop</uicontrol> - If the content inserted by a paste or drop action is
                        not valid at the cursor position, according to the schema, <ph
                          keyref="product"/> tries to find an appropriate insert position. The
                        possibilities include:<ul id="ul_jfs_5pz_zd">
                          <li id="li_ts4_bgk_54b">Creating a sibling element that can accept the content (for example,
                            if you tried to paste a paragraph into an existing paragraph).</li>
                          <li id="li_us4_bgk_54b">Inserting the content into a parent or child element (for example, if
                            you tried to paste a list item into an existing list item, or into the
                            space above or below and existing list).</li>
                          <li id="li_vs4_bgk_54b">Inserting the content into an ancestor element where it would be
                            valid.</li>
                        </ul></li>
                      <li id="reject-action"><uicontrol>Reject action when its result is
                          invalid</uicontrol> - If selected, <ph keyref="product"/> will not let you
                        paste content into a position where it would be invalid. </li>
                    </ul></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_ws4_bgk_54b">
                  <dt><uicontrol>Typing</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Controls the behavior that takes place when typing. Available options are: <ul id="ul_xs4_bgk_54b">
                      <li id="li_ys4_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Smart typing</uicontrol> - If typed characters are not allowed
                        in the element at the cursor position, but the previous element does allow
                        text, then a similar element will be inserted, along with your content.</li>
                      <li id="reject-action-typing"><uicontrol>Reject action when its result is
                          invalid</uicontrol> - If selected, and the result of the typing action is
                        invalid, the action will not be performed.</li>
                    </ul></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_zs4_bgk_54b">
                  <dt><uicontrol>Content Completion</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Controls the behavior that takes place when inserting elements using the
                      <term>Content Completion Assistant</term> in <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol>
                    mode. Available options are: <ul id="ul_at4_bgk_54b">
                      <li id="li_bt4_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Press ENTER to show available content
                          completion proposals</uicontrol> - If selected, pressing
                            <uicontrol><shortcut>Enter</shortcut></uicontrol> will open the
                          <term>Content Completion Assistant</term>. If deselected, there are three
                          possibilities:<ul id="ul_ct4_bgk_54b">
                          <li id="li_dt4_bgk_54b">The current element will be split (if
                            possible).</li>
                          <li id="li_et4_bgk_54b">A new element with the same name will be inserted
                            (if possible).</li>
                          <li id="li_ft4_bgk_54b">Otherwise, a new paragraph will be inserted.</li>
                        </ul></li>
                      <li id="show-all-possible-elements"><uicontrol>Show all possible elements in
                          the content completion list</uicontrol> - If selected, the content
                        completion list will show all the elements in the schema, even those that
                        cannot be entered validly at the current position. If you select an element
                        that is not valid at the current position, <ph keyref="product"/> will
                        attempt to find a valid location to insert it and may present you with
                        several options. </li>
                      <li id="allow-only-insertion"><uicontrol>Allow only insertion of valid
                          elements and attributes</uicontrol> - If selected, you can only select
                        elements in the content completion list that are valid (according to the
                        schema) at the current position.</li>
                      <li id="li_gt4_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Allow only insertion of valid attribute
                          values</uicontrol> - If selected, you cannot enter an attribute value that
                        is not valid (according to the schema)<ph
                          product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse"> in the <xref
                            href="author-attributes-view.dita#author-attributes-view"
                              ><uicontrol>Attributes</uicontrol> view</xref> or <xref
                            href="editing-attributes-author-mode.dita#editing-attributes-author-mode"
                              ><b>In-place Attributes Editor</b></xref></ph>. If the attribute has a
                        choice of values, you can select a possible value from a drop-down list in
                        the combo box, but you cannot enter a value manually. </li>
                    </ul></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_ht4_bgk_54b">
                  <dt><uicontrol>Warn on invalid content when performing action</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>A warning message will be displayed when performing an action that will result
                    in invalid content. Available options are:<ul id="ul_gt3_gqz_zd">
                      <li id="li_it4_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Delete Element Tags</uicontrol> - If
                        selected, a warning message will be displayed if the <xref
                          href="author-contextual-menu.dita"
                          product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse">Delete Element
                          Tags</xref><ph product="json">Delete Element Tags</ph> action will result
                        in an invalid document. You will be asked to confirm the deletion.</li>
                      <li id="li_jt4_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Join Elements</uicontrol> - If selected, a
                        warning message will be displayed if the <xref
                          href="author-contextual-menu.dita"
                          product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse">Join
                          Elements</xref><ph product="json">Join Elements</ph> action will result in
                        an invalid document. You will be asked to confirm the join.</li>
                    </ul></dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_kt4_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Automatically apply the best schema-aware insertion
            operation</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected, <ph keyref="product"/> automatically uses what it considers to be the
            best insertion solution, when there is an attempt to insert content that is not valid in
            a specific context. If not selected, <ph keyref="product"/> will ask the user to choose
            from a list of proposed solutions.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="convert_external_content_on_paste">
          <dt><uicontrol>Convert external content on paste</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_lt4_bgk_54b">If selected, the <xref
                href="smart-paste-support.dita#smart-paste-support"
                product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse"><term>Smart Paste</term>
                feature</xref><ph product="json"><term>Smart Paste</term> feature</ph> is enabled
              when external content is pasted in <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode.</p>
            <p id="p_mt4_bgk_54b">
              <dl id="dl_nt4_bgk_54b">
                <dlentry id="convert-even-space-preserve">
                  <dt><uicontrol>Convert even when pasting inside space-preserve
                      elements</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>If selected, the <term>Smart Paste</term> feature will be used even when
                    external content is pasted inside a <term>space-preserve</term> element (such as
                    a <xmlelement>codeblock</xmlelement>).</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_ot4_bgk_54b">
                  <dt><uicontrol>Convert pasted URLs to links</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>If selected, when a URL is pasted into <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode, a
                    link will be inserted (the type of link depends on the type of document). For
                    example, in DITA documents, an <xmlelement>xref</xmlelement> is inserted.</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </body>
  <related-links product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse">
    <link href="smart-paste-support.dita#smart-paste-support"/>
    <link href="author-customize-smart-paste.dita#author-customize-smart-paste"/>
  </related-links>
</topic>
