<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-editor-text">
  <title>Text Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Preferences<indexterm>Text mode</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Text mode preferences</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> lets you configure how the <xref
        href="text-mode-editor.dita#text-mode-editor"><uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode editor</xref>
      appears. To configure these options, <ph
        conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Edit modes</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>.</p>
    <p>The following options are available:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Editor background color</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Sets the background color for the <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> editing mode, <xref
              href="outliner-view.dita#outliner-view"><uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol> view</xref>,
            and some external tool editors (<xref href="large-file-viewer.dita#large-file-viewer"
                ><uicontrol>Large File Viewer</uicontrol></xref>, <xref
              href="file-comparison.dita#file-comparison"><uicontrol>Compare
              Files</uicontrol></xref>, <xref
              href="directories-comparison.dita#directories-comparison"><uicontrol>Compare
                Directories</uicontrol></xref>).</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Editor cursor color</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Sets the color for the cursor in <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="highlight-current-line">
          <dt><uicontrol>Highlight current line</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected, the current line is highlighted with the foreground color specified with
            the color chooser.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="show-line-numbers">
          <dt><uicontrol>Show line numbers</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected (default value), line numbers are shown in the editor panels<ph
              product="developer editor"> and in the <xref
                href="debugging-layout.dita#debugging-layout/output-view"
                  ><uicontrol>Output</uicontrol> view</xref> of the debugger <xref
                keyref="glossentry_perspective"><term>perspectives</term></xref></ph>. You can also
            specify the color for the line numbers using the color chooser. Printed output will also
            include the line numbers.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Show print margin</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected, it allows you to set a safe print limit in the form of a vertical line
            displayed in the right side of the editor pane. You can also customize the print margin
            line color.<p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Print margin column</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Allows you to specify a limit for the print width, measured in the number of
                    characters.</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="line-wrap">
          <dt><uicontrol>Line wrap</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected, long lines are automatically wrapped in edited documents. The line wrap
            does not alter the document content since the application does not use
              <i>new-line</i> characters to break long lines.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Cut / Copy whole line when nothing is selected</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected, <b>Cut</b> and <b>Copy</b> actions operate on the entire
            current line when nothing is selected in the editor.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="enable-folding">
          <dt><uicontrol>Enable folding</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected (default value), the vertical stripe that holds the <xref
              href="folding-of-the-xml-elements.dita#folding-of-the-xml-elements" format="dita"
              >folding markers</xref> is displayed in <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Highlight matching tag</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected, when you place the cursor on a start or end tag, <ph keyref="product"/>
            highlights the corresponding member of the pair. You can also customize the highlight
            color.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="lock-xml-tags-option">
          <dt><uicontrol>Lock the XML tags</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected, XML are locked and cannot be edited in <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol>
            mode.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </body>
</topic>
