<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-svn-diff">
  <title>Diff Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>Preferences<indexterm>SVN Diff</indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_txq_bgk_54b">To configure the SVN Diff options, <ph
        conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to
        <uicontrol>Diff</uicontrol>.</p>
    <p product="svnClient" id="p_uxq_bgk_54b">The following options are available:<dl id="dl_vxq_bgk_54b">
        <dlentry id="dlentry_wxq_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Default algorithm</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>The default algorithm used for performing comparisons. The following options are available:<ul id="ul_xxq_bgk_54b">
              <li conkeyref="reusables-tools/auto" id="li_yxq_bgk_54b"/>
              <li conkeyref="reusables-tools/lines" id="li_zxq_bgk_54b"/>
              <li conkeyref="reusables-tools/xml-fast" id="li_ayq_bgk_54b"/>
              <li conkeyref="reusables-tools/xml-accurate" id="li_byq_bgk_54b"/>
            </ul></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry
          conkeyref="reusables-configuring-oxygen/algorithm-strength" id="dlentry_cyq_bgk_54b">
          <dt/>
          <dd/>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry
          conkeyref="reusables-configuring-oxygen/show-pseudo-conflicts" id="dlentry_dyq_bgk_54b">
          <dt/>
          <dd/>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry
          conkeyref="reusables-configuring-oxygen/ignore-whitespaces" id="dlentry_eyq_bgk_54b">
          <dt/>
          <dd/>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry
          conkeyref="reusables-configuring-oxygen/xml-diff-section"
          id="xml-diff-section">
          <dt/>
          <dd/>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_fyq_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>External Diff</uicontrol> section</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_gyq_bgk_54b">
              <dl id="dl_hyq_bgk_54b">
                <dlentry id="dlentry_iyq_bgk_54b">
                  <dt><uicontrol>Compare With External Application</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p id="p_jyq_bgk_54b">Specifies an external application to be launched for compare operations in
                      the following cases:<ul id="ul_rmq_gkk_y3b">
                        <li id="li_kyq_bgk_54b">When two history revisions are compared.</li>
                        <li id="li_lyq_bgk_54b">When the working copy file is compared with a history revision.</li>
                        <li id="li_myq_bgk_54b">When <xref href="edit-conflict.dita">a conflict is edited</xref>.</li>
                      </ul></p>
                    <p id="p_nyq_bgk_54b">The parameters <b>${firstFile}</b> and <b>${secondFile}</b> specify the
                      positions of the two compared files in the command line for the external diff
                      application. The parameter <b>${ancestorFile}</b> specifies the common
                      ancestor (that is, the BASE revision of a file) in a three-way comparison. The
                      working copy version of a file is compared with the repository version, with
                      the BASE revision (the latest revision read from the repository by an Update
                      or Synchronize operation) being the common ancestor of these two compared
                        versions.<note type="important" id="note_oyq_bgk_54b">If the path to the external compare
                        application includes spaces (or any of the subsequent options or arguments),
                        then each of these paths or <i>tokens</i> must be double-quoted for the <ph
                          keyref="product"/> to correctly parse and identify them. For example,
                          <codeph>C:\Program Files\compareDir\app name.exe</codeph> must be written
                        as <codeph>"C:\Program Files\compareDir\app name.exe"</codeph>.</note></p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
    <p product="author developer editor json" id="p_pyq_bgk_54b">The following option is
        available:<dl id="dl_qyq_bgk_54b">
        <dlentry id="dlentry_ryq_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Compare With External Application</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_syq_bgk_54b">Specifies an external application to be launched for compare
              operations in the following cases:<ul id="ul_r5w_fkk_y3b">
                <li id="li_tyq_bgk_54b">When two history revisions are compared.</li>
                <li id="li_uyq_bgk_54b">When the working copy file is compared with a history
                  revision.</li>
                <li id="li_vyq_bgk_54b">When a conflict is edited.</li>
              </ul></p>
            <p id="p_wyq_bgk_54b">The parameters <b>${firstFile}</b> and <b>${secondFile}</b>
              specify the positions of the two compared files in the command line for the external
              diff application. The parameter <b>${ancestorFile}</b> specifies the common ancestor
              (that is, the BASE revision of a file) in a three-way comparison. The working copy
              version of a file is compared with the repository version, with the BASE revision (the
              latest revision read from the repository by an Update or Synchronize operation) being
              the common ancestor of these two compared versions.<note type="important"
                id="note_xyq_bgk_54b">If the path to the external compare application includes
                spaces (or any of the subsequent options or arguments), then each of these paths or
                  <i>tokens</i> must be double-quoted for the <ph keyref="product"/> to correctly
                parse and identify them. For example, <codeph>C:\Program Files\compareDir\app
                  name.exe</codeph> must be written as <codeph>"C:\Program Files\compareDir\app
                  name.exe"</codeph>.</note></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </body>
</topic>