<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-application-layout">
  <title>Application Layout Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Preferences<indexterm>Application Layout</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Layout preferences</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> offers various <xref keyref="glossentry_perspective"
          ><term>perspectives</term></xref> and views that you can arrange in a variety of layouts
      to suit your needs.</p>
    <p>To configure the application layout options, <ph
        conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to
        <uicontrol>Application Layout</uicontrol>. The following options are available:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Select application layout</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>You can choose between the following three layouts:<p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Default</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Uses the default layout for all <xref keyref="glossentry_perspective"
                        ><term>perspectives</term></xref>. Any modification of this layout (such as
                    closing views, displaying views, or a new view arrangement) is saved on exit and
                    reloaded at start-up.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Predefined</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Allows you to choose one of the predefined layouts:<ul id="ul_g1k_kbk_bp">
                      <li><uicontrol>Advanced</uicontrol> - All views are displayed.</li>
                      <li><uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> - An authoring-oriented layout that displays
                        views such as <xref
                          href="using-the-project-view.dita#using-the-project-view"
                            ><uicontrol>Project</uicontrol></xref>, <xref
                          href="archive-browser-view.dita#archive-browser-view"><uicontrol>Archive
                            Browser</uicontrol></xref>, <uicontrol>DITA Maps Manager</uicontrol>,
                          <uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Attributes</uicontrol>,
                          <uicontrol>Model</uicontrol>, and <uicontrol>Elements</uicontrol>.</li>
                      <li><uicontrol>Basic</uicontrol> - Only the <xref
                          href="using-the-project-view.dita#using-the-project-view"
                            ><uicontrol>Project</uicontrol> view</xref> and
                          <uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol> view are visible. Recommended when you edit
                        XML content and you need maximum screen space.</li>
                      <li><uicontrol>Schema development</uicontrol> - The <xref
                          href="using-the-project-view.dita#using-the-project-view"
                            ><uicontrol>Project</uicontrol></xref>, <uicontrol>Component
                          Dependencies</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Resource
                          Hierarchy/Dependencies</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol>,
                          <uicontrol>Palette</uicontrol>, and <uicontrol>Attributes</uicontrol>
                        views are displayed.</li>
                      <li><uicontrol>XQuery development</uicontrol> - The <xref
                          href="using-the-project-view.dita#using-the-project-view"
                            ><uicontrol>Project</uicontrol></xref>, <uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol>,
                          <uicontrol>Transformation Scenarios</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>XSLT/XQuery
                          input</uicontrol> views are displayed.</li>
                      <li><uicontrol>XSLT development</uicontrol> - The <xref
                          href="using-the-project-view.dita#using-the-project-view"
                            ><uicontrol>Project</uicontrol></xref>, <uicontrol>Component
                          Dependencies</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Resource
                          Hierarchy/Dependencies</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol>,
                          <uicontrol>Attributes</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Model</uicontrol>,
                          <uicontrol>XSLT/XQuery input</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>XPath
                          Builder</uicontrol>, and <uicontrol>Transformation Scenarios</uicontrol>
                        views are displayed.</li>
                    </ul></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Custom</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Allows you to specify a custom layout to be used. You can save your preferred
                    layout using <menucascade>
                      <uicontrol>Window</uicontrol>
                      <uicontrol>Export Layout</uicontrol>
                    </menucascade>, then enter the location of the saved layout file in this
                    setting.</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Reset layout at startup</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>When this option is selected, <ph keyref="product"/> forgets any changes made to the
            layout during a session and reloads the default layout the next time it is started. This
            is useful when you want to keep a fixed layout from one session to another.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Remember layout changes for each project</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>When this options is selected, <ph keyref="product"/> saves layouts individually for
            each project. When you switch projects, the layout you last used for that project is
            loaded automatically.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Allow detaching of editors from main window</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>When this options is selected, you can drag and drop an editor window outside of the
            main screen. This is useful especially when you are using two monitors and you want to
            view files side by side.<note>If the main screen is maximized, you cannot drag and drop
              an editor outside of it.</note></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>View tab placement</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Specifies whether the <i>View</i> tabs are located at the top or bottom of the
            window.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Editor tab placement</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Specifies whether the <i>Editor</i> tabs are located at the top or bottom of the
            window.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
    <p>The changes you make to any layout are preserved between working sessions. The predefined
        <term>layout</term> files are saved in the <filepath>preferences</filepath> directory of <ph
        keyref="product"/>.</p>
    <p>To watch our video demonstration about configuring the user interface of <ph keyref="product"
      />, go to <xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/demo/Dockable_Views.html" format="html"
        scope="external"/>.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
