<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-editor-save">
  <title>Save Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Preferences<indexterm>Save</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Save preferences</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> lets you control how files are saved. To configure the options for
      saving documents, <ph conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and
      go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Save</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>.</p>
    <p>The following options are available:<dl>
        <dlentry id="show-save-as-option">
          <dt>Show "Save as" option to save newly created documents in the "New" document
            wizard</dt>
          <dd>It is selected by default, but if you deselect this option, the <xref
              href="new-dialog-sa.dita#new-dialog-sa/save-as-step"><uicontrol>Save as</uicontrol>
              option</xref> will not be available in the <xref
              href="new-dialog-sa.dita#new-dialog-sa"><uicontrol>New Document</uicontrol>
              wizard</xref>, so you will not have the ability to change the default name and path of
            the new file.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Safe save (only for local files)</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>In the unlikely event of a failure when attempting a <uicontrol>Save</uicontrol>
            action, this option provides increased protection from corruption of the original file.
            When this option is selected, it saves the content to a temporary file and if the save
            is unsuccessful, the editor preserves its unsaved state status.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="enable-automatic-save">
          <dt><uicontrol>Automatically save the document every</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected, your documents are automatically saved after a preset time interval that
            is specified in the drop-down list.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>On Save, make backup copy with extension (only for local
            files)</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected, a backup copy is made when saving the edited document. This option is
            available only for local files (files that are stored on the local file system). The
            default backup file extension is <filepath>.bak</filepath>, but that can be changed in
            the text field.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Save auto-recover information every</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected, your documents are automatically saved to a backup file after the time
            interval specified in the drop-down list.<p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Auto-recover file location</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Specifies the location of the backup file for auto-recovery.</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Validate document before saving</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected, <ph keyref="product"/> runs a validation that checks your document for
            errors before saving it.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Save all files before transformation or validation</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Saves all opened files before validating or transforming an XML document. This ensures
            that any dependencies are resolved when modifying the XML document and its XML
            Schema.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="save-all-files-before-tool">
          <dt><uicontrol>Save all files before calling external tools</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected, all files are saved before executing an <xref
              href="integrating-external-tools.dita#integrating-external-tools" format="dita"
              >external tool</xref>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Automatically compile LESS to CSS when saving</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected, when you save a LESS file it will automatically be compiled to CSS
            (deselected by default).<note type="important">If this option is selected, when you save
              a LESS file, the CSS file that has the same name as the LESS file is overwritten
              without warning. Make sure all your changes are made in the LESS file. Do not edit the
              CSS file directly, as your changes might be lost.</note></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Performance</uicontrol> section</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Clear undo buffer on save</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>If selected, <ph keyref="product"/> clears its undo buffer when you save a
                    document. Thus, modifications made prior to saving the document cannot be
                    undone. Select this option if you frequently encounter <b>out of memory</b>
                    errors when editing large documents.</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </body>
</topic>
