<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-editor-open-save">
  <title>Open / Save Preferences</title>
  <!--Proofed-->
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Configure the Application<indexterm>Editor
              preferences<indexterm>open/save</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>OutOfMemory</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Out Of Memory</indexterm>
        <indexterm>OutOfMemoryError</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> lets you control how files are opened and saved. To configure the
        <uicontrol>Open / Save</uicontrol> options, <ph
        conkeyref="reusable.menus/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Open / Save</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>.</p>
    <section
      product="author developer editor svnClient authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">
      <title>Open</title>
      <p>The following options apply to opening files:</p>
      <ul>
        <li product="author developer editor"><uicontrol>Lock local resources</uicontrol> - When
          this option is enabled and you open a file, <ph keyref="product"/> creates a
            <filepath>.lock</filepath> file, meaning that the file is now <term>locked</term> by the
          current user. Newly created files are <term>locked</term> when you save them. If you
          enable this option with files already opened in <ph keyref="product"/>, it will
            <term>lock</term> all the currently opened files. If you disable this option with files
          already opened, it will unlock them by deleting the corresponding
            <filepath>.lock</filepath> files.</li>
        <li product="author developer editor svnClient"><uicontrol>When bidirectional (BIDI) text is
            detected</uicontrol> - Allows you to choose what happens when you try to open a file
          that contains BIDI Unicode characters. You can choose one of the following:<ul
            id="ul_fgm_2w4_sq">
            <li><uicontrol>Enable bidirectional editing mode</uicontrol></li>
            <li><uicontrol>Disable bidirectional editing mode</uicontrol></li>
            <li><uicontrol>Prompt for each document</uicontrol></li>
          </ul></li>
        <li product="author developer editor svnClient" id="disable-bidi-support"><uicontrol>Disable
            bidirectional text support for documents larger than (Characters)</uicontrol> - Enabling
          bidirectional text editing support can affect performance on large files. When this option
          is selected, bidirectional editing is turned off for files exceeding the specified size,
          even if the <uicontrol>When bidirectional (BIDI) text is detected</uicontrol> option is
          set to <uicontrol>Enable bidirectional editing mode</uicontrol>.</li>
        <li product="svnClient"><uicontrol>Show BIDI limit warning</uicontrol> - It this option is
          selected, <ph keyref="product"/> will warn you if bidirectional editing support is turned
          off and a file exceeds the specified limit.</li>
        <li product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"><uicontrol>Format document when
            longest line exceeds</uicontrol> - <ph keyref="product"/> will create line breaks if the
          characters in a line exceed the specified value. You can choose one of the following:<ul
            id="ul_fdg_hj4_sq">
            <li><uicontrol>Always format</uicontrol></li>
            <li><uicontrol>Never format</uicontrol></li>
            <li><uicontrol>Always ask</uicontrol></li>
          </ul></li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">
      <title>Save</title>
      <p>The following options apply to saving files:</p>
      <ul>
        <li product="author developer editor"><uicontrol>Safe save (only for local
            files)</uicontrol> - This option provides increased protection in the unlikely event of
          a failure of the <uicontrol>Save</uicontrol> action. If the <uicontrol>Save</uicontrol>
          action fails, it creates a temporary file that holds the edited content until it is safely
          saved in the original file. The temporary file is kept in the system temporary directory
            <uicontrol>OxygenXMLTemp</uicontrol>.<?oxy_comment_start author="Mark" timestamp="20140913T113654-0400" comment="Does Oxygen detect and recover the file when Save fails?"?></li>
        <?oxy_comment_end?>
        <li product="editor author developer"><uicontrol>Make backup copy on save (only for local
            files)</uicontrol> - If selected, a backup copy is made when saving the edited document.
          This option is available only for local files (files that are stored on the local file
          system). The default backup file extension is <filepath>.bak</filepath>, but that can be
          changed.</li>
        <li product="editor author developer"><uicontrol>Enable automatic save</uicontrol> - When
          selected, your documents are saved automatically, after a preset time interval.</li>
        <li product="editor author developer"><uicontrol>Automatic save interval
            (minutes)</uicontrol> - Selects the interval, in minutes, for the automatic save
          action.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Check errors on save</uicontrol> -
          <?oxy_comment_start author="Mark" timestamp="20140913T113845-0400" comment="What sort of errors does it check for? Does this mean it runs a validation scenario?"?>If
          enabled, <ph keyref="product"/> checks your document for errors before saving
          it.<?oxy_comment_end?></li>
        <li><uicontrol>Save all files before transformation or validation</uicontrol> - Saves all
          open files before validating or transforming an XML document. This ensures that any
          dependencies are resolved when modifying the XML document and its XML Schema.</li>
        <li product="editor author developer"><uicontrol>Save all files before calling external
            tools</uicontrol> - If selected, all files are saved before executing an <xref
            href="integrating-external-tools.dita#integrating-external-tools" format="dita">external
            tool</xref>.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">
      <title>Performance</title>
      <p>The following options cover performance issues when dealing with large files:</p>
      <ul id="ul_wgj_wvn_kp">
        <li product="editor author developer"><uicontrol>Optimize loading in the Text edit mode for
            files over (MB)</uicontrol> - File loading is optimized for reduced memory usage for any
          file with a size larger than this value. This is useful for editing large files, but it
          comes with <xref href="editing-large-documents.dita#editing-large-documents">several
            restrictions</xref> on memory-intensive operations.</li>
        <li product="editor author developer"><uicontrol>Show warning when loading large
            documents</uicontrol> - <ph keyref="product"/> will warn you if you open a file that is
          bigger than the specified size.</li>
        <li product="editor author developer"><uicontrol>Optimize loading for documents with lines
            longer than (Characters)</uicontrol> - Line wrap is turned on for a document that
          contains lines that exceed the specified length. For a list of the restrictions applied to
          a document with long lines, see <xref href="long-lines-document.dita#long-lines-document"
            format="dita">the <uicontrol>Editing Documents with Long Lines</uicontrol>
            section.</xref></li>
        <li product="editor author developer"><uicontrol>Show warning when loading documents with
            long lines</uicontrol> - When selected, <ph keyref="product"/>will warn you when you
          open a file with lines longer than the specified length. To reduce the length of lines in
          a file, <xref keyref="edit.format-and-indent-XML">format and indent the document</xref>
          after it is opened in the editor panel. For a list of the restrictions applied to a
          document with long lines, see <xref href="long-lines-document.dita#long-lines-document"
            format="dita"/>.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Clear undo buffer on save</uicontrol> - If selected, <ph keyref="product"/>
          clears its undo buffer when you save a document. Therefore, modifications made prior to
          saving the document cannot be undone. Select this option if you frequently encounter
            <term>out of memory</term> errors when editing large documents.</li>
        <li product="author developer editor"><uicontrol>Consider application bundles to be
            directories when browsing</uicontrol> - This option is available only on the Mac OS X
          platform. When selected, the file browser dialog allows browsing inside an application
          bundle, as in a regular folder. Otherwise, the file browser dialog does not allow browsing
          inside an application bundle, as the Finder application does on Mac OS X. <note>The same
            effect can be obtained by setting the property
                <i><term>apple.awt.use-file-dialog-packages</term></i> to <term>true</term> or
              <term>false</term> in the <filepath>Info.plist</filepath> descriptor file of the <ph
              keyref="product"/> application:
            <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;key>apple.awt.use-file-dialog-packages&lt;/key>
&lt;string>false&lt;/string></codeblock></note>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
