<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-content-completion">
  <title>Content Completion Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>Configure the Application<indexterm>Editor preferences<indexterm>content
            completion</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> provides a <xref
        href="streamline-with-content-completion.dita#streamline-with-content-completion"
        format="dita"><uicontrol>Content Completion Assistant</uicontrol></xref> that list available
      options at any point in a document and can auto-complete structures, elements, and attributes.
      These options control how the <uicontrol>Content Completion Assistant</uicontrol> works.</p>
    <p>To configure the <uicontrol>Content Completion</uicontrol> preferences, <ph
        conkeyref="reusable.menus/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Content Completion</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>.</p>
    <p>The following options are available:</p>
    <ul>
      <li><uicontrol>Auto close the last opened tag</uicontrol> - <ph keyref="product"/> closes the
        last open tag when you type <codeph>&lt;/</codeph>.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Automatically rename/delete/comment matching tag</uicontrol> - If you rename,
        delete, of comment out a start tag,<ph keyref="product"/> automatically renames, deletes, or
        comments out the matching end tag.
          <?oxy_comment_start author="Mark" timestamp="20140911T170028-0400" comment="I&apos;m having a hard time parsing this. What I observed was that if you toggle a comment on a line containing an opening tag and the closing tag is on the same line as other markup, it will not be commented out, but if it is on a line by itself it will be commented out. Deleting an elements did not seem to effected by what else was on the same line as the end tag. The end tag was always deleted. Multiple starting tags do not seem to be a factor. "?><note>If
          you select <uicontrol>Toggle comment</uicontrol> for multiple starting tags (or you delete
          them) and the matching end tags area interferes with start tags, the end tags are not
          commented (or deleted).<?oxy_comment_end?></note></li>
      <li><uicontrol>Use content completion</uicontrol> - Turns content completion on or off. </li>
      <li><uicontrol>Close the inserted element</uicontrol> - When you choose an entry from the
          <uicontrol>Content Completion Assistant</uicontrol> list of proposals, <ph
          keyref="product"/> inserts both start and end tags. <ul>
          <li><uicontrol>If it has no matching tag</uicontrol> - The end tag of the inserted element
            is automatically added only if it is not already present in the document.</li>
          <li><uicontrol>Add element content</uicontrol> - <ph keyref="product"/> inserts the
            required elements specified in the DTD, XML Schema, or RELAX NG schema that is <xref
              href="setting-a-default-schema.dita#setting-a-default-schema" format="dita">associated
              with the edited XML document</xref>. <?oxy_delete author="Mark" timestamp="20140911T170717-0400" content="&lt;ph product=&quot;editor author editorEclipse authorEclipse&quot;&gt;This option is applied also in the &lt;uicontrol&gt;Author&lt;/uicontrol&gt; mode of the XML editor.&lt;/ph&gt; "?><?oxy_comment_start author="Mark" timestamp="20140911T170858-0400" comment="Nothing in the topic says that the other setting apply only to text mode. Adding this caveat only adds confusion. People will assume that the setting applies everywhere unless you explicitly say that it doesn&apos;t."?><ul>
              <?oxy_comment_end?>
              <li><uicontrol>Add optional content</uicontrol> - <ph keyref="product"/> inserts the
                optional elements specified in the DTD, XML Schema, or RELAX NG
                schema.<?oxy_delete author="Mark" timestamp="20140911T170904-0400" content=" &lt;ph product=&quot;editor author editorEclipse authorEclipse&quot;&gt;This option is applied also in the &lt;uicontrol&gt;Author&lt;/uicontrol&gt; mode of the XML editor.&lt;/ph&gt;"?>
              </li>
              <li><uicontrol>Add first Choice particle</uicontrol> - <ph keyref="product"/> inserts
                the first <uicontrol>choice</uicontrol> particle specified in the DTD, XML Schema,
                or RELAX NG schema.
                <?oxy_delete author="Mark" timestamp="20140911T170907-0400" content="&lt;ph product=&quot;editor author editorEclipse authorEclipse&quot;&gt;This option is applied also in the &lt;uicontrol&gt;Author&lt;/uicontrol&gt; mode of the XML editor.&lt;/ph&gt; "?></li>
            </ul></li>
        </ul></li>
      <li><uicontrol>Case sensitive search</uicontrol> - The search in the content completion
        assistant window when you type a character is case-sensitive ('a' and 'A' are different
        characters).
        <?oxy_delete author="Mark" timestamp="20140911T170910-0400" content="&lt;ph product=&quot;editor author editorEclipse authorEclipse&quot;&gt;This option is applied also in the &lt;uicontrol&gt;Author&lt;/uicontrol&gt; mode of the XML editor.&lt;/ph&gt; "?></li>
      <li><uicontrol>Cursor position between tags</uicontrol> - When selected, <ph keyref="product"
        /> moves the cursor automatically between start and end tag after inserting the element.
        <?oxy_comment_start author="Mark" timestamp="20140911T171053-0400" comment="So what happens in the other cases?"?>This
        applies to:<?oxy_comment_end?><ul>
          <li>Elements with only optional attributes or no attributes at all.</li>
          <li>Elements with required attributes, but only when the <uicontrol>Insert the required
              attributes</uicontrol> option is disabled.</li>
        </ul></li>
      <li><uicontrol>Show all entities</uicontrol> - <ph keyref="product"/> displays a list with all
        the internal and external entities declared in the current document when the user types the
        start character of an entity reference (i.e. <codeph>&amp;</codeph>).</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Insert the required attributes</uicontrol> - <ph keyref="product"/> inserts
        automatically the required attributes taken from the DTD or XML Schema. <ph
          product="editor author editorEclipse authorEclipse">This option is applied also in the
            <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode of the XML editor;</ph>
      </li>
      <li><uicontrol>Insert the fixed attributes</uicontrol> - <ph keyref="product"/> automatically
        inserts any <codeph>FIXED</codeph> attributes from the DTD or XML Schema for an element
        inserted with the help of the <uicontrol>Content Completion Assistant</uicontrol>. <ph
          product="editor author editorEclipse authorEclipse">This option is applied also in the
            <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode of the XML editor;</ph>
      </li>
      <li><uicontrol>Show recently used items</uicontrol> - when checked, <ph keyref="product"/>
        remembers the last inserted items from the <uicontrol>Content Completion
          Assistant</uicontrol> window. The number of items to be remembered is limited by the
          <uicontrol>Maximum number of recent items shown</uicontrol> list box. These most
        frequently used items are displayed on the top of the content completion window<ph
          product="editor author developer"> and are separated from the rest of the suggestions by a
          thin grey line</ph>
        <ph product="editorEclipse authorEclipse developerEclipse">their icon is decorated with a
          small red square.</ph>. <ph product="editor author editorEclipse authorEclipse">This
          option is applied also in the <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode of the XML
        editor;</ph></li>
      <li><uicontrol>Maximum number of recent items shown</uicontrol> - limits the number of
        recently used items presented at the top of the <uicontrol>Content Completion
          Assistant</uicontrol> window. <ph product="editor author editorEclipse authorEclipse">This
          option is applied also in the <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode of the XML
        editor;</ph></li>
      <li><uicontrol>Learn attributes values</uicontrol> - <ph keyref="product"/> learns the
        attribute values used in a document. <ph product="editor author editorEclipse authorEclipse"
          >This option is applied also in the <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode of the XML
          editor;</ph></li>
      <li><uicontrol>Learn on open document</uicontrol> - <ph keyref="product"/> automatically
        learns the document structure when the document is opened. <ph
          product="editor author editorEclipse authorEclipse">This option is applied also in the
            <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode of the XML editor;</ph>
      </li>
      <li><uicontrol>Learn words</uicontrol> (Dynamic Abbreviations, available on  <uicontrol
          conref="oxygen-shortcuts-list.dita#oxygen-shortcuts-list/ctrl_space"/>) - When selected,
          <ph keyref="product"/> learns the typed words and makes them available in a content
        completion fashion by pressing <uicontrol
          conref="oxygen-shortcuts-list.dita#oxygen-shortcuts-list/ctrl_space"/> om your
          keyboard;<note>In order to be learned, the words need to be separated by space
          characters.</note></li>
      <li product="editor author developer"><uicontrol>Activation delay of the proposals window
          (ms)</uicontrol> - Delay in milliseconds from last key press until the content completion
        assistant window is displayed.</li>
    </ul>
  </body>
</topic>
