<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-messages">
  <title>Messages Preferences</title><prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>Preferences<indexterm>Messages</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Message preferences</indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>The <uicontrol>Messages</uicontrol> preference page allows you to specify whether or not
      certain messages are displayed. To configure these options, <ph
        conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to
        <uicontrol>Messages</uicontrol>.</p>
    <p>The following warning messages can be enabled or disabled:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Show confirmation dialog when moving resources</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Specifies whether or not to display a confirmation dialog box when you move a resource
            in the <uicontrol>Project</uicontrol> view, <xref
              href="../topics/relational-database-explorer.dita#relational-database-explorer"
                ><uicontrol>Data Source Explorer</uicontrol> view</xref>, and <uicontrol>Archive
              Browser</uicontrol>. In the confirmation dialog box, there is an option to choose to
            not show this dialog box in the future. To reset that behavior, simply select
              <uicontrol>Restore Defaults</uicontrol> at the bottom of this preferences page.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Show warning when adding resources already included in the
              project</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Specifies whether or not to display a dialog box that warns you if you try to add
            files that already exist in your project.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Show warning for document size limit for bidirectional text, Asian
              languages, and other special characters</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Specifies whether or not to display a warning message when an opened file that
            contains bidirectional characters is too large and bidirectional support is
            disabled.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Show warning message when changing the text orientation in the
              editor</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Specifies whether or not to display a warning message when you change the text
            orientation in the editor.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Show warning when editing long expressions in the XPath
            toolbar</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Specifies whether or not to display an information dialog box that allows you to
            specify if you want to use the <xref href="xpath-builder-view.dita#xpath-builder-view"
                ><uicontrol>XPath/XQuery Builder</uicontrol></xref> view when editing long XPath
            expressions.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="author editor">
          <dt><uicontrol>Show MathFlow recommendation</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Specifies whether or not to display an information dialog box that recommends using
            the <xref href="../tasks/configure-mathflow-editor.dita#configure-mathflow-editor"
                ><uicontrol>MathFlow Editor</uicontrol></xref> to edit MathML equations.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Show SFTP certificate warning dialog</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Specifies whether or not to display a warning dialog box each time the authenticity of
            the SFTP server host cannot be established.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Show Enterprise license related message when trying to connect to a
              Microsoft SharePoint server</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Specifies whether or not to display an error message if you try to connect to a
            Microsoft SharePoint server without having the proper license.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="developer editor">
          <dt><uicontrol>Convert DB Structure to XML Schema</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>When tables from a database schema are selected in the <uicontrol>Select database
              table</uicontrol> section of the <xref
              href="../topics/convert-db-to-xml-schema.dita#convert-db-to-xml-schema"
                ><uicontrol>Convert DB Structure to XML Schema</uicontrol> dialog box</xref> and
            another database schema is expanded, a confirmation is needed since the previous
            selection will be discarded. This option specifies whether or not you are always asked
            if you want the other database schema to always be expanded without asking you, or it is
            never expanded.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="show-encoding-dialog">
          <dt><uicontrol>Show the dialog box for choosing the encoding for Base64, Base 32, Hex
              conversions</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Specifies whether or not to display a dialog box that allows you to choose a specific
            encoding whenever you use the <uicontrol>Encode Selection</uicontrol> or
              <uicontrol>Decode Selection</uicontrol> actions for <xref
              href="text-mode-actions.dita#text-mode-actions/base64-encode-decode"
              ><i>Base64</i></xref>, <xref
              href="text-mode-actions.dita#text-mode-actions/base32-encode-decode"
              ><i>Base32</i></xref>, or <xref
              href="text-mode-actions.dita#text-mode-actions/hex-encode-decode"><i>Hex</i>
              conversions</xref>. In the dialog box, there is an option to choose to not show this
            dialog box in the future. To reset that behavior, simply select <uicontrol>Restore
              Defaults</uicontrol> at the bottom of this preferences page.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </body>
</topic>
