<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-track-changes" >
    <title>Review Preferences</title>
    <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>Configure the Application<indexterm>Editor
                        preferences<indexterm>author track
                changes</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
    <body>
        <p><ph keyref="product"/> lets you <xref keyref="author.change-tracking">enter review
        comments and track changes</xref> in your documents. The Review preferences control how the
        <ph keyref="product"/> review features work. To configure the <uicontrol>Review</uicontrol>
      options, <ph conkeyref="reusable.menus/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Edit modes</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Review</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>.</p>
        <p>The available options are:</p>
        <ul>
      <li><uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> - Specifies the name to be attached to all comments and to
        changes made while <uicontrol>Track Changes</uicontrol> is active. By default, <ph
          keyref="product"/> uses the system user name.</li>
      <li><uicontrol id="initial_state">Initial State</uicontrol> - Track Changes is turned on and
        off separately for each document you open. You may have some opened documents for which
        track changes is turned on and others for which it is turned off. This setting specifies
        whether <uicontrol>Track Changes</uicontrol> is turned on when you open a document. The
        options are:<ul>
          <li><uicontrol>Stored in document</uicontrol> - The current state of track changed is
            stored in the document itself, meaning that track changes on or off depending on the
            state the last time the document was saved. This is the recommended setting when
            multiple authors work on the same set of documents as it will make it obvious to other
            authors that changes have been made in the document. </li>
          <li><uicontrol>Always On</uicontrol> - The <uicontrol>Track Changes</uicontrol> feature is
            always on when you open a document. You can turn it off for an open document, but it
            will be turned on for the next document you open. </li>
          <li><uicontrol>Always Off</uicontrol> - The <uicontrol>Track Changes</uicontrol> feature
            is always off when you open a document. You can turn it on for an open document, but it
            will be turned off for the next document you open. </li>
        </ul></li>
      <li><uicontrol>Display changed lines marker</uicontrol> - A changed line maker is a vertical
        line on the left side of the editor window indicating where changes have been made in the
        document. To hide the changed lines marker, deselect this option.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Inserted content color</uicontrol> - When <uicontrol>Track Changes</uicontrol>
        option is on, the newly inserted content is highlighted with an <term>insertion
          marker</term>, that uses a color to adjust the following display properties of the
        inserted content: foreground, background, and underline. This section allows you to
        customize the marker's color:<ul>
          <li><uicontrol>Automatic</uicontrol> - <ph keyref="product"/> assigns a color to each user
            who inserted content in the current document. The colors are picked from the
              <uicontrol>Colors for automatic assignment</uicontrol> list, the priority being
            established by the change (deletion, insertion, or comment) timestamp.</li>
          <li><uicontrol>Fixed</uicontrol> - Uses the specified color for all insertion markers,
            regardless of who the author is.</li>
          <li><uicontrol>Use same color for text foreground</uicontrol> - Use the color defined
            above (<uicontrol>Automatic</uicontrol> or <uicontrol>Fixed</uicontrol>) to render the
            foreground of the inserted content.</li>
          <li><uicontrol>Use same color for background</uicontrol> - Use the color defined above
              (<uicontrol>Automatic</uicontrol> or <uicontrol>Fixed</uicontrol>) to render the
            background of the inserted content. A slider control allows you to set the transparency
            level of the marker's background.</li>
        </ul></li>
      <li><uicontrol>Deleted content color</uicontrol> - When <uicontrol>Track Changes</uicontrol>
        option is on, the deleted content is highlighted with a <term>deletion marker</term>, that
        uses a color to adjust the following display properties of the deleted content: foreground,
        background, and strikethrough. This section allows you to customize the marker's color:<ul>
          <li><uicontrol>Automatic</uicontrol> - <ph keyref="product"/> assigns a color to each user
            who deleted content in the current document. The colors are picked from the
              <uicontrol>Colors for automatic assignment</uicontrol> list, the priority being
            established by the change (deletion, insertion, or comment) timestamp.</li>
          <li><uicontrol>Fixed</uicontrol> - Uses the specified color for all deletion markers,
            regardless of who the author is.</li>
          <li><uicontrol>Use same color for text foreground</uicontrol> - Use the color defined
            above (<uicontrol>Automatic</uicontrol> or <uicontrol>Fixed</uicontrol>) to render the
            foreground of the deleted content.</li>
          <li><uicontrol>Use same color for background</uicontrol> - Use the color defined above
              (<uicontrol>Automatic</uicontrol> or <uicontrol>Fixed</uicontrol>) to render the
            background of the deleted content. A slider control allows you to set the transparency
            level of the marker's background.</li>
        </ul></li>
      <li><uicontrol>Comments color (applies for all authors)</uicontrol> - Sets the background
        color of the text that is commented on. The options are:<ul
          id="ul_ab333fe6-748e-4ddd-9efc-8ad89410160e">
          <li><uicontrol>Automatic</uicontrol> - <ph keyref="product"/> assigns a color to each user
            who added a comment in the current document. The colors are picked from the
              <uicontrol>Colors for automatic assignment</uicontrol> list, the priority being
            established by the change (deletion, insertion, or comment) timestamp.</li>
          <li><uicontrol>Fixed</uicontrol> - Uses the specified color for all changes, regardless of
            the author's name. Use the slider to control the transparency level.</li>
        </ul></li>
    </ul>
    </body>
    <related-links>
        <link href="author-change-tracking.dita#author-change-tracking">
            <desc>Tracking Document Changes</desc>
        </link>
    </related-links>
</topic>

