<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-css-processors">
  <title>CSS-based Processors Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Preferences<indexterm>CSS Processors</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>CSS processors preferences</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> includes a built-in <uicontrol>XML to PDF transformation with
        CSS</uicontrol> scenario type for generating PDF output using a CSS-based processor.</p>
    <p>To configure the options for the CSS-based processors, <ph
        conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>XML</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>PDF Output</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>CSS-based Processors</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>. This preferences page includes the following options:</p>
    <section id="apache_fop_section">
      <title>Oxygen PDF Chemistry Section</title>
      <p>
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><uicontrol>Auto-detect</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>If selected, the directory of the <b>Chemistry</b> processor will be automatically
              detected. This is based on the system's PATH environmental variable. If none is
              detected, it will use the path of the built-in distribution.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><uicontrol>Custom installation directory</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>Use this option to select an external directory of a custom installation of the
                <b>Chemistry</b> processor.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="memory-available-fop">
            <dt><uicontrol>Memory available to the processor (MB)</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>Specifies the maximum amount of memory that is available for the transformation. If
              your transformations fail with an Out of Memory error
                (<uicontrol>OutOfMemoryError</uicontrol>), you can use this option to select a
              bigger value for the amount of memory reserved for the process.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><uicontrol>Generates PDF/UA-1 output</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>Use this option to produce output that conforms with the PDF/UA-1 accessibility
                standards.<note>This mode has some special requirements. For example, all fonts have
                to be embedded and the title of  documents must be marked using the metadata. For
                more information, see <xref
                  href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-chemistry/topics/ch_accessibility.html#ch_accessibility__section_gsx_2ld_xz"
                  format="html" scope="external">Oxygen PDF Chemistry User Guide: Fully Accessible
                  PDF (PDF/UA1)</xref>.</note></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry conkeyref="reusables-configuring-oxygen/show-console-output-dlentry">
            <dt/>
            <dd/>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
