<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-document-type-association">
  <title>Document Type Association Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Preferences<indexterm>Document Type Association</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Document type association preferences</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> uses <xref keyref="glossentry_document_type_association"
          ><term>document type associations</term></xref> to associate a <xref
        keyref="doctypes_doctype">document type</xref> with a set of functionality provided by a
        <xref keyref="glossentry_framework"><term>framework</term></xref>. To configure the
        <uicontrol>Document Type Association</uicontrol> options, <ph
        conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to
        <uicontrol>Document Type Association</uicontrol>.</p>
    <p>The following actions are available in this preferences page:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Discover more frameworks by using add-ons update sites</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Click on this link to specify URLs for <term>framework</term> add-on update
            sites.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Document Type</uicontrol> Table</dt>
          <dd>This table presents the currently defined <xref keyref="glossentry_framework"
                ><term>frameworks</term></xref> (<xref keyref="glossentry_document_type_association"
                ><term>document type associations</term></xref>), sorted by priority and
            alphabetically. Each edited document type has a <xref
              href="document-type-association-rules-tab.dita">set of association rules</xref> (used
            by the application to detect the proper document type association to use for an opened
            XML document).</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>New</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Opens a <xref href="the-document-type-dialog.dita#the-document-type-dialog"
                ><uicontrol>Document type</uicontrol> configuration dialog box</xref> that allows
            you to add a new <term>framework</term>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="edit">
          <dt><uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Opens a <xref href="the-document-type-dialog.dita#the-document-type-dialog"
                ><uicontrol>Document type</uicontrol> configuration dialog box</xref> that allows
            you to edit an existing <term>framework</term>.<note>If you try to edit an existing
                <term>framework</term> when you do not have write permissions to its storage
              location, a dialog box will be shown asking if you want to extend it.</note></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="duplicate">
          <dt><uicontrol>Duplicate</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Opens a <xref href="the-document-type-dialog.dita#the-document-type-dialog"
                ><uicontrol>Document type</uicontrol> configuration dialog box</xref> that allows
            you to duplicate the configuration of an existing <term>framework</term>. This will
            create a snapshot of the <term>framework</term> in its current form. It is merely a copy
            of the document type and will not <i>evolve</i> along with the base document type like
            the <uicontrol>Extend</uicontrol> action does.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="extend">
          <dt><uicontrol>Extend</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Opens a <xref href="the-document-type-dialog.dita#the-document-type-dialog"
                ><uicontrol>Document type</uicontrol> configuration dialog box</xref> that allows
            you to extend an existing <term>framework</term>. You can add or remove functionality
            starting from a base document type. All of these changes will be saved as a patch. When
            the base document type is modified and evolves (for example, from one application
            version to another) the extension will evolve along with the base document type,
            allowing it to use the new actions added in the base document type.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Delete</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Deletes the selected <term>framework</term> (document type).</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="enable-dtd-schema-processing">
          <dt><uicontrol>Enable DTD/XML Schema processing in document type
            detection</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>When this option is selected (default value), the matching process also examines the
            DTD/XML Schema associated with the document. For example, the fixed attributes declared
            in the DTD for the root element are also analyzed, if this is specified in the
            association rules. This is especially useful if you are writing DITA customizations.
            DITA topics and maps are also matched by looking for the
              <codeph>DITAArchVersion</codeph> attribute of the root element. This attribute is
            specified as <codeph>default</codeph> in the DTD and it is detected in the root element,
            helping <ph keyref="product"/> to correctly match the DITA customization.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Only for local DTDs/XML Schemas</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>When this option is selected (default value), only the local DTDs / XML Schemas will
            be processed.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Enable DTD/XML Schema caching</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>When this option is selected (default value), the associated DTDs or XML Schema are
            cached when parsed for the first time, improving performance when opening new documents
            with similar schema associations.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </body>
  <related-links product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse">
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="author-document-type-extension-sharing.dita"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
