<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-perspectives-layout">
  <title>Perspectives Layout Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Configure the Application<indexterm>perspectives layout</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> offers many helper views that you can arrange in different layouts to
      match your needs. Use the <uicontrol>Perspectives Layout</uicontrol> preferences page to
      configure your preferred layout.</p>
    <p>To open this preferences page, go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol product="editor author developer">Options</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Perspectives Layout</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>. The following options are available:<ul>
        <li><uicontrol>Select application layout</uicontrol><ul>
            <li><uicontrol>Default</uicontrol> - indicates that <ph keyref="product"/> uses the
              default layout for all its perspectives. Any modification of this layout (for instance
              closing / displaying views or a new view arrangement) is saved on exit and reloaded at
              start-up;</li>
            <li>
              <ul>
                <li><uicontrol>Predefined</uicontrol> - <ph keyref="product"/> has several
                  predefined layouts to choose from, depending on the type of work you intend to do: <ul>
                    <li><uicontrol>Advanced</uicontrol> - all views are visible;</li>
                    <li><uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> - authoring-oriented layout, displaying the
                        <uicontrol>Project</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Archive Browser</uicontrol>,
                        <uicontrol>DITA Maps Manager</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol>,
                        <uicontrol>Attributes</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Model</uicontrol>, and
                        <uicontrol>Elements</uicontrol> views;</li>
                    <li><uicontrol>Basic</uicontrol> - only the <uicontrol>Project</uicontrol> view
                      and the <uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol> view are visible. Recommended when you
                      edit XML content and you need maximum screen space;</li>
                    <li><uicontrol>Intermediate</uicontrol> - the <uicontrol>Project</uicontrol>,
                        <uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Attributes</uicontrol>,
                        <uicontrol>Model</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Elements</uicontrol>,
                        <uicontrol>Entities</uicontrol>, and <uicontrol>Transformation
                        Scenarios</uicontrol> views are visible;</li>
                    <li><uicontrol>Schema development</uicontrol> - the
                        <uicontrol>Project</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Component
                        Dependencies</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Resource
                        Hierarchy/Dependencies</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol>,
                        <uicontrol>Palette</uicontrol>, and <uicontrol>Attributes</uicontrol> views
                      are visible;</li>
                    <li><uicontrol>XQuery development</uicontrol> - the
                        <uicontrol>Project</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol>,
                        <uicontrol>Transformation Scenarios</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>XSLT/XQuery
                        input</uicontrol> views are visible;</li>
                    <li><uicontrol>XSLT development</uicontrol> - the
                      <uicontrol>Project</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Component Dependencies</uicontrol>,
                        <uicontrol>Resource Hierarchy/Dependencies</uicontrol>,
                        <uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Attributes</uicontrol>,
                        <uicontrol>Model</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>XSLT/XQuery input</uicontrol>,
                        <uicontrol>XPath Builder</uicontrol>, and <uicontrol>Transformation
                        Scenarios</uicontrol> views are visible.</li>
                  </ul>
                </li>
              </ul>
            </li>
            <li><uicontrol>Custom</uicontrol> - allows you to choose a previously saved layout file;
                <note>In order to create a layout file, you can arrange the views in the desired
                order and then save the layout by invoking the <menucascade>
                  <uicontrol>Window</uicontrol>
                  <uicontrol>Save layout ...</uicontrol>
                </menucascade> action.</note></li>
          </ul><ul>
            <li><uicontrol>Reset layout at stratup</uicontrol> - enable this option to erase the
              changes made to the layout between sessions. This is useful when you want to keep a
              fixed layout from one section to another;</li>
            <li><uicontrol>Remember layout changes for each project</uicontrol> - specifies whether
              the <ph keyref="product"/> layout configuration is saved individually for each
              project. When you enable this option, a different layout file is created for each
              project in the options folder. Switching from the current project to another one also
              loads the layout associated with the latter.</li>
          </ul></li>
      </ul></p>
    <ul>
      <li><uicontrol>Allow detaching editors from main window</uicontrol> - this option allows you
        to drag and drop an editor window outside of the main screen. This is useful especially when
        you are using two monitors and you want to view files in parallel;<note>In case the main
          screen is maximized, you can not drag and drop an editor outside of it. </note></li>
      <li><uicontrol>View tab placement</uicontrol> - specifies whether the View tab is presented at
        the top or bottom of the window;</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Editor tab placement</uicontrol> - specifies whether the Editor tab is
        presented at the top or bottom of the window.</li>
    </ul>
    <p>The changes you make to any layout are preserved between working sessions. Also, changing to
      a different layout and returning to the previous one does not alter the changes you made to
      the first layout. The predefined <term>layout</term> files are saved in the
        <filepath>preferences</filepath> directory of <ph keyref="product"/>.</p>
    <p>To watch our video demonstration about configuring the user interface of <ph keyref="product"
    />, go to <xref href="http://oxygenxml.com/demo/Dockable_Views.html" format="html"
        scope="external"/>.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
