<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-editor-format">
  <title>Format Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Preferences<indexterm>Editor<indexterm>Format</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Formatting preferences</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse">This preferences page contains various
      formatting options that influence editing and formatting in both the <xref
        href="text-mode-editor.dita#text-mode-editor"><uicontrol>Text</uicontrol></xref> and <xref
        href="author-editor.dita#author-editor"><uicontrol>Author</uicontrol></xref> editing modes.
      To control additional options specifically for the <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode editor,
      see <xref keyref="author_whitespace-handling"/>.</p>
    <p product="developer developerEclipse">This preferences page contains various formatting
      options that influence editing and formatting in the <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode.</p>
    <p>
      <note>These settings apply to the formatting of source documents. The formatting of output
        documents is determined by the <xref keyref="transform_documents">transformation scenarios
          that create them</xref>. </note>
    </p>
    <p>To configure the <uicontrol>Format</uicontrol> options, <ph
        conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Format</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>.</p>
    <p>The following options are available:<dl>
        <dlentry id="detect-indent-on-open">
          <dt><uicontrol>Detect indent on open</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected, <ph keyref="product"/> detects how a document is indented when it is
            opened. <ph keyref="product"/> uses a heuristic method of detection by computing a
            weighted average indent value from the initial document content. You can deselect this
            setting if the detected value does not work for your particular case and you want to use
            a fixed-size indent for all the edited documents. If this option is selected, <ph
              keyref="product"/> detects the following:<ul>
              <li>When TAB characters are used to indent content, the size of the TAB characters is
                used for the indent size.</li>
              <li>Otherwise, the detected size of SPACE characters is used for the indent size.</li>
            </ul><note type="tip">If you want to minimize the formatting differences created by the
                <uicontrol>Format and Indent</uicontrol> operation in a document edited in the
                <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> edited mode, make sure that both the <uicontrol>Detect
                indent on open</uicontrol> and <xref
                href="#preferences-editor-format/detect-line-width-on-open" format="dita"
                  ><uicontrol>Detect line width on open</uicontrol></xref> options are
              selected.</note></dd>
          <dd>
            <p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Use zero-indent, if detected</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>By default, if no indent was detected in the document, the fixed-size indent
                    is used. Select this option if all your document have no indentation and you
                    want to keep them that way.</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="indent-with-tabs">
          <dt><uicontrol>Indent with tabs</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected, indents are created using TAB characters. If unchecked, lines are
            indented using space characters. Selecting this option automatically disables the <xref
              href="#preferences-editor-format/detect-indent-on-open" format="dita"
                ><uicontrol>Detect indent on open</uicontrol></xref> option.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Indent size</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>The meaning of this setting depends on the following:<ul>
              <li>If the <xref href="#preferences-editor-format/detect-indent-on-open" format="dita"
                    ><uicontrol>Detect indent on open</uicontrol> option</xref> is selected and TAB
                characters are detected at the beginning of the line, the <i>indent size</i> is the
                width of a TAB character. Otherwise, the <i>indent size</i> value is ignored and <ph
                  keyref="product"/> uses the number of detected SPACE characters.</li>
              <li>If the <xref href="#preferences-editor-format/indent-with-tabs" format="dita"
                    ><uicontrol>Indent with tabs</uicontrol> option</xref> is selected, the
                  <i>indent size</i> is the width of a TAB character.</li>
              <li>If neither of these options are selected, the <i>indent size</i> is the number of
                SPACE characters used for indenting the text lines.</li>
            </ul><p>For additional information about changing the <i>indent size</i>, see <xref
                href="setting-an-indent-of-zero.dita#setting-an-indent-of-zero"/>.</p><p>For
              information about when this setting is used, see <xref
                href="#preferences-editor-format/when-indent-size-line-width-section" format="dita"
              />.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="indent-on-enter-li">
          <dt><uicontrol>Indent on enter</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected, when you press <userinput>Enter</userinput> to insert a line break in the
              <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> editing mode, an indentation will be added to the new
            line.</dd>
          <dd>
            <p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry id="smart-enter-li">
                  <dt><uicontrol>Enable smart enter</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>If selected, when you press the <userinput>Enter</userinput> key between a
                    start and an end XML tag in the <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> editing mode, the
                    cursor is placed in an indented position on the empty line formed between the
                    start and end tag.</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="format-indent-on-open">
          <dt><uicontrol>Format and indent the document on open</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected, an XML document is formatted and indented before opening it in <ph
              keyref="product"/>.<note>Some specialized types of XML documents do not benefit from
              this feature, including Relax NG, XSD, XSL, and Ant. However, the feature is available
              for some non-XML types of documents, such as CSS and JSON.</note></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="detect-line-width-on-open">
          <dt><uicontrol>Detect line width on open</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected, <ph keyref="product"/> automatically detects the line width when the
            document is opened.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="hard-line-wrap-li">
          <dt><uicontrol>Hard line wrap (Limit to "Line width - Format and Indent")</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected, when typing content in the <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> editing mode and
            the maximum line width is reached, a line break is automatically inserted.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="line-width-ph">
          <dt><uicontrol>Line width - Format and Indent</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Defines the number of characters after which the <uicontrol>Format and
              Indent</uicontrol> (pretty-print) action performs hard line-wrapping. For example, if
            set to 100, after a <uicontrol>Format and Indent</uicontrol> action, the longest line
            will have a maximum of 100 characters. <ph
              product="author editor authorEclipse developerEclipse">This setting is also used when
              saving XML content edited in the <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> editing
              mode.</ph><note>To avoid having an indent that is longer than the line width setting
              and without having sufficient space available for the text content, the indent limit
              is actually set at half the value of the <uicontrol>Line width - Format and
                Indent</uicontrol> setting. The remaining space is reserved for text.</note>For
            information about when this setting is used, see <xref
              href="#preferences-editor-format/when-indent-size-line-width-section" format="dita"
                                                                   >Where Indent Size and Line Width Settings are Used in Oxygen XML Editor</xref>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Clear undo buffer before Format and Indent</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>The <uicontrol>Format and Indent</uicontrol> operation can be <i>undone</i>, but
            if used intensively, a considerable amount of the memory allocated for <ph
              keyref="product"/> will be used for storing the undo states. If this option is
            selected, <ph keyref="product"/> empties the undo buffer before doing a
              <uicontrol>Format and Indent</uicontrol> operation. This means you will not be able to
            undo any changes you made before the format and indent operation. Select this option if
            you encounter out of memory problems (<uicontrol>OutOfMemoryError</uicontrol>) when
            performing the <uicontrol>Format and Indent</uicontrol> operation.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
    <section id="when-indent-size-line-width-section">
      <title>Where <uicontrol>Indent Size</uicontrol> and <uicontrol>Line Width</uicontrol> Settings
        are Used in <ph keyref="product"/></title>
      <p>The values set in the <uicontrol>Indent Size</uicontrol> and <uicontrol>Line Width - Format
          and Indent</uicontrol> options are used in various places in the application, including
        the following:<ul id="ul_sz1_ttz_mr">
          <li>When the <uicontrol>Format and Indent</uicontrol> action is used in the
              <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> editing mode.</li>
          <li>When you press <userinput>ENTER</userinput> to break a line in the
              <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> editing mode.</li>
          <li>When the <uicontrol>Hard line wrap (Limit to "Line width - Format and
              Indent")</uicontrol> option is selected and the maximum line width is reached while
            editing in the <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode.</li>
          <li product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse">When the XML is serialized by
            saving content in the <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> editing mode.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <p>For more information about the formatting options offered by <ph keyref="product"/>, watch
      our video demonstration:</p>
    <p><object width="450" height="250" data="https://www.youtube.com/embed/1plmdN0Cfso"
        outputclass="iframe">
        <param name="allowfullscreen" value="true"/>
      </object></p>
  </body>
</topic>
