<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-editor-code-templates">
  <title>Code Templates Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Configure the Application<indexterm>Editor preferences<indexterm>code
              templates</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>Code templates are small document fragments that can be inserted quickly at the editing
      position and can be reused in other editing sessions. <ph
        keyref="product"/> comes with a large set of
      ready-to use templates for XSL, XQuery, and XML Schema. You can even share your code templates
      with your colleagues using the template export and import functions.</p>
    <p>To obtain the template list, use: </p>
    <ul>
      <li>The shortcut key that activates the <uicontrol>Content Completion Assistant</uicontrol> on
        request is <uicontrol conref="oxygen-shortcuts-list.dita#oxygen-shortcuts-list/ctrl_space"
        />. It displays the code templates names in <xref
          href="streamline-with-content-completion.dita"
          product="author authorEclipse editor
          editorEclipse">the content completion
          assistant list</xref>
        <ph product="authorSDK">the <uicontrol>Content Completion Assistant</uicontrol> list</ph>
        together with proposed element names.</li>
      <li>The shortcut key that activates code templates assistant on request: <uicontrol
          conref="oxygen-shortcuts-list.dita#oxygen-shortcuts-list/ctrl_shift_space"/>. It displays
        only the code templates in the proposals list.</li>
    </ul>
    <p>To open the <uicontrol>Code Templates</uicontrol> preferences page, go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol product="editor author developer">Options</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol product="editorEclipse authorEclipse developerEclipse">Window</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol product="editorEclipse developerEclipse">oXygen XML Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol product="authorEclipse">Author</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Templates</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Code Templates</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>. This preferences page contains a list with all available code templates (both
      built-in and custom created ones) and a code preview area. You can disable any code template
      by unchecking its corresponding option box. </p>
    <ul>
      <li><uicontrol>New</uicontrol> - defines a new code template. You can choose to set the newly
        defined code template for a specific type of editor or for all editor types;</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol> - edits the selected code template;</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Duplicate</uicontrol> - creates a duplicate of the currently selected code
        template;</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Delete</uicontrol> - deletes the currently selected code template. This action
        is disabled for the built-in code templates;</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Import</uicontrol> - imports a file with code templates that was created by the
          <uicontrol>Export</uicontrol> action;</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Export</uicontrol> - exports a file with code templates.</li>
    </ul>
  </body>
</topic>