<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-editor-schema">
  <title>Schema Design Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>Preferences<indexterm>Schema Design mode</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Design mode preferences</indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_vz4_bgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> provides a <xref
        href="xml-schema-diagram-introduction.dita#xml-schema-diagram-introduction">graphical schema
        design editor</xref> to make editing XML Schema easier. To configure the <uicontrol>Schema
        Design</uicontrol> options, <ph
        conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Edit modes</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Schema Design</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>. </p>
    <p id="p_wz4_bgk_54b">The following options are available in the <uicontrol>Schema Design</uicontrol> preferences
      page:</p>
    <p id="p_xz4_bgk_54b">
      <dl id="dl_yz4_bgk_54b">
        <dlentry id="show-annotation">
          <dt><uicontrol>Show annotation in the diagram</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>When selected, <ph keyref="product"/> displays the content of documentation in schema
            diagrams.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_zz4_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>When trying to edit components from another schema</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>The schema diagram editor will combine schemas imported by the current schema file
            into a single schema diagram. You can choose what happens if you try to edit a component
            from an imported schema. The options are:<ul id="ul_a1p_bgk_54b">
              <li id="li_b1p_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Always go to its definition</uicontrol> - <ph keyref="product"/> opens
                the imported schema file so that you can edit it.</li>
              <li id="li_c1p_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Never go to its definition</uicontrol> - The imported schema file is
                not opened and the component cannot be edited in place. </li>
              <li id="li_d1p_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Always ask</uicontrol> - <ph keyref="product"/> asks if you want to
                open the imported schema file.</li>
            </ul></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="developer editor json" id="zoom">
          <dt><uicontrol>Zoom</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Allows you to set the default zoom level of the schema diagram.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>