<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-xquery-saxon">
  <title>Saxon HE/PE/EE Preferences</title>
  <!--Proofed-->
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>Configure the Application<indexterm>XSLT/FO/XQuery
            preferences<indexterm>Saxon
    HE/PE/EE</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>To configure the <uicontrol>Saxon HE/PE/EE</uicontrol> options, <ph
        conkeyref="reusable_menus/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>XML</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>XSLT/FO/XQuery</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>XQuery</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Saxon HE/PE/EE</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>.</p>
    <p>The XQuery preferences for the Saxon <ph keyref="saxon9FullVersion"/> Home Edition (HE),
      Professional Edition (PE), and Enterprise Edition (EE) are as follows:</p>
    <ul>
      <li id="xquery-use-config-file"><uicontrol>Use a configuration file ("-config")</uicontrol> -
        Sets a Saxon 9 configuration file that is used for XQuery transformation and validation</li>
      <li id="xquery-recoverable-errors"><uicontrol>Recoverable errors ("-warnings")</uicontrol>-
        Allows you to choose how dynamic errors are handled. The following options can be
          selected:<ul id="ul_q2g_5ql_4q">
          <li><uicontrol>recover silently ("silent")</uicontrol> - Continues processing without
            reporting the error.</li>
          <li><uicontrol>recover with warnings ("recover")</uicontrol> - Issues a warning but
            continues processing.</li>
          <li><uicontrol>signal the error and do not attempt recovery ("fatal")</uicontrol> - Issues
            an error and stops processing.</li>
        </ul></li>
      <li id="xquery-strip-whitespaces"><uicontrol>Strip whitespaces ("-strip")</uicontrol> - Can
        have one of the following values:<ul>
          <li><uicontrol>All ("all")</uicontrol> - Strips <i>all</i> whitespace text nodes from
            source documents before any further processing, regardless of any
              <codeph>xml:space</codeph> attributes in the source document.</li>
          <li><uicontrol>Ignore ("ignorable")</uicontrol> - Strips all <i>ignorable</i> whitespace
            text nodes from source documents before any further processing, regardless of any
              <codeph>xml:space</codeph> attributes in the source document. Whitespace text nodes
            are ignorable if they appear in elements defined in the DTD or schema as having
            element-only content.</li>
          <li><uicontrol>None ("none")</uicontrol> - Strips <i>no</i> whitespace before further
            processing.</li>
        </ul></li>
      <li id="xquery-optimization-level"><uicontrol>Optimization level ("-opt")</uicontrol> - Set
        the optimization level. The value is an integer in the range 0 (no optimization) to 10 (full
        optimization). This option allows optimization to be suppressed when reducing the compiling
        time is important, optimization conflicts with debugging, or optimization causes extension
        functions with side-effects to behave unpredictably.</li>
      <li id="linked-tree-li"><uicontrol>Use linked tree model ("-tree:linked")</uicontrol> - This
        option activates the linked tree model. </li>
      <li id="xquery30-li"><uicontrol>Enable XQuery 3.0 support ("-qversion:(1.0|3.0)")</uicontrol>
        - If checked, Saxon runs the XQuery transformation with the XQuery 3.0 support (this option
        is enabled by default).</li>
    </ul>
    <p>The following option is available for Saxon <ph keyref="saxon9FullVersion"/> Professional
      Edition (PE) and Enterprise Edition (EE) only:</p>
    <ul>
      <li id="xquery-allow-calls"><uicontrol>Allow calls on extension functions ("-ext")</uicontrol>
        - If checked, calls on external functions are allowed. Checking this option is recommended
        in an environment where untrusted stylesheets may be executed. It also disables user-defined
        extension elements and the writing of multiple output files, both of which carry similar
        security risks.</li>
    </ul>
    <p>The options available specifically for Saxon <ph keyref="saxon9FullVersion"/> Enterprise
      Edition (EE) are as follows:</p>
    <ul>
      <li id="xquery-val-source-file"><uicontrol>Validation of the source file ("-val")</uicontrol>
        - Requests schema-based validation of the source file and of any files read using the
          <codeph>document()</codeph> or similar functions.  It can have the following values:<ul
          id="ul_k2j_lmr_4q">
          <li><uicontrol>Schema validation ("strict")</uicontrol> - This mode requires an XML Schema
            and enables parsing the source documents with strict schema-validation enabled.</li>
          <li><uicontrol>Lax schema validation ("lax")</uicontrol> - If an XML Schema is provided,
            this mode enables parsing the source documents with schema-validation enabled but the
            validation will not fail if, for example, element declarations are not found.</li>
          <li><uicontrol>Disable schema validation</uicontrol> - This specifies that the source
            documents should be parsed with schema-validation disabled.</li>
        </ul></li>
      <li conref="preferences-xslt-saxon8.dita#preferences-xslt-saxon8/saxon-option-outval"
        conrefend="preferences-xslt-saxon8.dita#preferences-xslt-saxon8/generate_bytecode_option"/>
      <li id="xquery-enable-update"><uicontrol>Enable XQuery update ("-update:(on|off)")</uicontrol>
        - This option controls whether or not XQuery update syntax is accepted. The default value is
        off.</li>
      <li id="xquery-saxon-ee-advanced-options-end"><uicontrol>Backup files updated by XQuery
          ("-backup:(on|off)")</uicontrol> - If checked, backup versions for any XML files updated
        with XQuery Update are generated. This option is available when the <uicontrol>Enable XQuery
          update</uicontrol> option is enabled.</li>
                </ul>
  </body>
</topic>
