<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-content-completion-annotations">
  <title>Annotations Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Preferences<indexterm>Content Completion annotations</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Annotation preferences</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_elp_bgk_54b">Certain types of schemas <ph
        product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">(XML Schema,
        DTDs, Relax NG) </ph>can include annotations that document the various elements and
      attributes that they define. <ph keyref="product"/> can display these annotations when
      offering content completion suggestions. To configure the <uicontrol>Annotations</uicontrol>
      preferences, <ph conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Content Completion</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Annotations</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>.</p>
    <p id="p_flp_bgk_54b">The following options are available:<dl id="dl_glp_bgk_54b">
        <dlentry id="dlentry_hlp_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol id="show_annotations_in_cc">Show annotations in Content Completion
              Assistant</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected, <ph keyref="product"/> displays the schema annotations of an element,
            attribute, or attribute value currently selected in the <xref
              keyref="glossentry_content-completion-assistant"><term>Content Completion
                Assistant</term></xref> proposals list.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_ilp_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Show annotations in tooltip</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected, <ph keyref="product"/> displays the annotation of elements and attributes
            as a tooltip when you hover over them with the cursor in the editing area or in the
              <uicontrol>Elements</uicontrol> view. If not selected, tooltips are disabled in all
            modes.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_jlp_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol id="show-annotations-html-dlentry">Show annotation in HTML format, if
              possible</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>This option allows you to view the annotations associated with an element or attribute
            in HTML format. <ph
              product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">It is
              available when editing XML documents that have associated an XML Schema or Relax NG
              schema. </ph>If this option is not selected, the annotations are converted and
            displayed as plain text.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_klp_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol id="prefer-dtd-comments-dlentry">Prefer DTD comments that start with "doc:"
              as annotations</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_llp_bgk_54b">To address the lack of dedicated annotation support in DTD
              documents, <ph keyref="product"/> recommends prefixing with the <codeph>doc:</codeph>
              particle all comments intended to be shown to the developer who writes an XML
              validated against a DTD schema.</p>
            <p id="p_mlp_bgk_54b">If this option is selected, <ph keyref="product"/> uses the
              following mechanism to collect annotations:<ul id="ul_bvd_wjc_ss">
                <li id="li_nlp_bgk_54b">If at least one <codeph>doc:</codeph> comment is found in
                  the entire DTD, only comments of this type are displayed as annotations.</li>
                <li id="li_olp_bgk_54b">If no <codeph>doc:</codeph> comment is found in the entire
                  DTD, all comments are considered annotations and displayed as such.</li>
              </ul></p>
            <p id="p_plp_bgk_54b">If not selected, all comments, regardless of their type, are
              considered annotations and displayed as such.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_qlp_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol id="use_relax_ng_annotations">Use all Relax NG annotations as
              documentation</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected, any element outside the Relax NG namespace, that is
              <codeph>http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0</codeph>, is considered annotation and is
            displayed in the annotation window next to the <xref
              keyref="glossentry_content-completion-assistant"><term>Content Completion
                Assistant</term></xref> window<ph
              product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"> and in
              the <xref href="model-panel.dita#model-panel"><uicontrol>Model</uicontrol>
              view</xref></ph>. When this option is not selected, only elements from the Relax NG
            annotations namespace, that is
              <codeph>http://relaxng.org/ns/compatibility/annotations/1.0</codeph> are considered
            annotations.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </body>
  <related-links product="author developer editor">
    <link href="content-completion-schema-annotations.dita#content-completion-schema-annotations"/>
  </related-links>
</topic>
