<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-editor-spell-check">
  <title>Spell Check Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Preferences<indexterm>Spell Check</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Spell check preferences</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse"><ph keyref="product"/> provides
        support for spell checking in the <xref href="text-mode-editor.dita#text-mode-editor"
            ><uicontrol>Text</uicontrol></xref> and <xref href="author-editor.dita#author-editor"
            ><uicontrol>Author</uicontrol></xref> editing modes.</ph><ph
        product="developer developerEclipse"><ph keyref="product"/> provides support for spell
        checking in the <xref href="text-mode-editor.dita#text-mode-editor"
            ><uicontrol>Text</uicontrol></xref> editing mode.</ph> To configure the <uicontrol>Spell
        Check</uicontrol> options, <ph
        conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Spell Check</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>.</p>
    <p>The following options are available:<dl>
        <dlentry id="automatic-spell-check">
          <dt><uicontrol>Automatic spell check</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>This option is not selected by default. When selected, <ph keyref="product"/>
            automatically checks the spelling as you type and highlights misspelled words in the document.<ul>
              <li><uicontrol>Select editors</uicontrol> - You can select which editors (and
                therefore which file types) will be automatically spell checked. File types (such as
                CSS and DTD), in which automatic spell checking is not usually helpful, are excluded
                by default.</li>
            </ul></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="author developer editor">
          <dt><uicontrol>Spell check highlight color</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Use this option to set the color used by the spell check engine to highlight spelling
            errors.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="lang-options-section">
          <dt><uicontrol>Language options</uicontrol> section</dt>
          <dd>This section includes the following language options:<p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry id="default-language">
                  <dt><uicontrol>Default language</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>The default language list allows you to choose the language used by the spell
                    check engine when the language is not specified in the source file. <ph
                      product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
                      >You can <xref keyref="editing_spell-check">add additional dictionaries to the
                        spell check engines</xref>.</ph></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Use "lang" and "xml:lang" attributes</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>When this option is selected, the contents of an element with one of the
                      <codeph>lang</codeph> or <codeph>xml:lang</codeph> attributes is checked in
                    that language. Choose between the following two options for instances when these
                    attributes are missing:<ul>
                      <li><uicontrol>Use the default language</uicontrol> - If the
                          <codeph>lang</codeph> and <codeph>xml:lang</codeph> attributes are
                        missing, the selection in the <xref
                          href="#preferences-editor-spell-check/default-language" format="dita"
                            ><uicontrol>Default language</uicontrol> list</xref> is used.</li>
                      <li><uicontrol>Do not check</uicontrol> - If the <codeph>lang</codeph> and
                          <codeph>xml:lang</codeph> attributes are missing, the element is not
                        checked.</li>
                    </ul></dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>XML spell checking in</uicontrol> section</dt>
          <dd>You can choose to check the spelling inside the following XML items:<ul>
              <li><uicontrol>Comments</uicontrol></li>
              <li><uicontrol>Attribute values</uicontrol></li>
              <li><uicontrol>Text</uicontrol></li>
              <li><uicontrol>CDATA</uicontrol></li>
            </ul></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Options</uicontrol> section</dt>
          <dd>This section includes the following other options:<p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Check capitalization</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>When selected, the spell checker reports detected capitalization
                      errors.<note>This option will not have any effect on words stored in
                      dictionaries, term lists, and the list of learned words because they are not
                      handled as case sensitive.</note></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Check punctuation</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>When selected, the spell checker checks punctuation. Misplaced white space and
                    unusual sequences, such as a period following a comma, are highlighted as
                    errors.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Ignore mixed case words</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>When selected, the spell checker does not check words containing mixed case
                    characters (for example, <i>SpellChecker</i>).</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Ignore acronyms</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Available only for the <b>Hunspell Spell Checker</b>. When selected, acronyms
                    are not reported as errors.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Ignore words with digits</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>When selected, the spell checker does not check words containing digits (for
                    example, <i>b2b</i>).</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Ignore duplicates</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>When selected, the spell checker does not signal two successive identical
                    words as an error.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Ignore URL</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>When selected, the spell checker ignores words recognized as URLs or file
                    names (for example, <i>www.oxygenxml.com</i> or <i>c:\boot.ini</i>).</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Allow compounds words</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>When selected, all words formed by concatenating two legal words with a hyphen
                    (hyphenated compounds) are accepted. If recognized by the language, two words
                    concatenated without hyphen (closed compounds) are also accepted.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Allow file extensions</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>When selected, the spell checker accepts any word ending with recognized file
                    extensions (for example, <i>myfile.txt</i> or <i>index.html</i>).</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="ignore-elements-section">
          <dt><uicontrol>Ignore elements</uicontrol> section</dt>
          <dd>You can use the <uicontrol>Add</uicontrol> and <uicontrol>Remove</uicontrol> buttons
            to configure a list of element names or XPath expressions to be ignored by the spell
            checker. The following restricted set of XPath expressions are supported:<ul
              id="ul_zm3_x3y_qr">
              <li>'/' and '//' separators</li>
              <li>'*' wildcard</li>
            </ul>An example of an allowed XPath expression is: <i>/a/*/b</i>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse">
          <dt><uicontrol>AutoCorrect options</uicontrol> link</dt>
          <dd>Use this link to navigate to the <xref
              href="autocorrect-preferences-page.dita#autocorrect-preferences-page"
                ><uicontrol>AutoCorrect</uicontrol> preferences page</xref>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
    <p product="authorEclipse editorEclipse developerEclipse">To change the color used by the spell
      check engine to highlight spelling errors, <ph
        conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/preferences-eclipse-not-oxygen"/>. Then go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>General</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Editors</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Text Editors</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Annotations</uicontrol>
      </menucascade> and change the color in the <uicontrol>Spell Check Annotation</uicontrol>
      option.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
