<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-xml-import">
  <title>Import Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>Configure the Application<indexterm>import</indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>To configure importing options, <ph
        conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>XML</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Import</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>. This page allows you to configure how empty values and <codeph>null</codeph>
      values are handled when they are encountered in imported database tables or Excel sheets. Also
      you can configure the format of date / time values recognized in the imported database tables
      or Excel sheets.</p>
    <p>The following options are available:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Create empty elements for empty values</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If checked, an empty value from a database column or from a text file is imported as
            an empty element.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Create empty elements for null values</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If checked, <codeph>null</codeph> values from a database column are imported as empty
            elements.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Escape XML content</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Enabled by default, this option instructs <ph keyref="product"/> to escape the
            imported content to an XML-safe form.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Add annotations for generated XML Schema</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If checked, the generated XML Schema contains an annotation for each of the imported
            table columns. The documentation inside the annotation tag contains the remarks of the
            database columns (if available) and also information about the conversion between the
            column type and the generated XML Schema type.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Date / Time Format</uicontrol> section</dt>
          <dd>Specifies the format used for importing date and time values from Excel spreadsheets
            or database tables, and in the generated XML schemas. You can choose from the following
            format types:<ul>
              <li><uicontrol>Unformatted</uicontrol> - The date and time formats specific to the
                database are used for import. When importing data from Excel a string representation
                of date or time values are used. The type used in the generated XML Schema is
                  <codeph>xs:string</codeph>.</li>
              <li><uicontrol>XML Schema date format</uicontrol> -The XML Schema-specific format
                ISO8601 is used for imported date / time data
                  (<codeph>yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ss</codeph> for <codeph>datetime</codeph>,
                  <codeph>yyyy-MM-dd</codeph> for <codeph>date</codeph> and
                  <codeph>HH:mm:ss</codeph> for <codeph>time</codeph>). The types used in the
                generated XML Schema are <codeph>xs:datetime</codeph>, <codeph>xs:date</codeph> and
                  <codeph>xs:time</codeph>.</li>
              <li><uicontrol>Custom format</uicontrol> - If selected, you can define a custom format
                for timestamp, date, and time values or choose one of the predefined formats. A
                preview of the values is presented when a format is used. The type used in the
                generated XML Schema is <codeph>xs:string</codeph>.</li>
            </ul></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </body>
</topic>