<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-xml-catalog">
  <title>XML Catalog Preferences</title><prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>Configure the Application<indexterm>XML catalog</indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>To open the <uicontrol>XML Catalog</uicontrol> preferences page, go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol product="editor author svnClient developer">Options</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol product="editorEclipse authorEclipse developerEclipse">Window</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol product="editorEclipse developerEclipse">oXygen XML Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol product="authorEclipse">Author</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>XML</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>XML Catalog</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>.</p>
    <p>The following options are available:<ul id="ul_hrw_qfx_1f">
        <li id="xml_catalog_prefer"><uicontrol>Prefer</uicontrol> - the prefer setting determines
          whether public identifiers specified in the catalog are used in favor of system
          identifiers supplied in the document. Suppose you have an entity in your document for
          which both a public identifier and a system identifier has been specified, and the catalog
          only contains a mapping for the public identifier (e.g., a matching public catalog entry).
          If <uicontrol>public</uicontrol> is selected, the URI supplied in the matching public
          catalog entry is used. If  <uicontrol>system</uicontrol> is selected, the system
          identifier in the document is used.<note>If the catalog contained a matching system
            catalog entry giving a mapping for the system identifier, that mapping would have been
            used, the public identifier would never have been considered, and the setting of
            override would have been irrelevant.</note> Generally, the purpose of catalogs is to
          override the system identifiers in XML documents, so <uicontrol>Prefer</uicontrol> should
          usually be <uicontrol>public</uicontrol> in your catalogs.</li>
        <li>
          <p>When using catalogs it is sometimes useful to see what catalog files are parsed, if
            they are valid or not, and what identifiers are resolved by the catalogs. The
              <uicontrol>Verbosity</uicontrol> option selects the detail level of such logging
            messages of the XML catalog resolver that will be displayed in the
              <uicontrol>Catalogs</uicontrol> view at the bottom of the window:</p>
          <ul id="ul_brq_fjx_1f">
            <li><uicontrol>None</uicontrol> - No message is displayed by the catalog resolver when
              it tries to resolve a URI reference, a SYSTEM one or a PUBLIC one with the XML
              catalogs specified in this panel.</li>
            <li><uicontrol>Unresolved entities</uicontrol> - Only the logging messages that track
              the failed attempts to resolve references are displayed.</li>
            <li><uicontrol>All messages</uicontrol> - The messages of both failed attempts and
              successful ones are displayed.</li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li id="xml_catalog_resolve_schema">
          <p>If <uicontrol>Resolve schema locations also through system mappings</uicontrol> is
            enabled, <ph keyref="product"/> analyzes
            both <i>uri</i> and <i>system</i> mappings in order to resolve the location of
            schema.</p>
        </li>
        <li id="xml_catalog_process_ns">
          <p>If <uicontrol>Process namespaces through URI mappings for XML Schema</uicontrol> is
            selected then the target namespace of the imported XML Schemas is resolved through the
              <i>uri</i> mappings. The namespace is taken into account only when the schema
            specified in the <i>schemaLocation</i> attribute was not resolved successfully.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>If the <uicontrol>Use default catalog</uicontrol> option is checked the first XML
            catalog which <ph keyref="product"/> will
            use to resolve references at document validation and transformation will be a default
            built-in catalog. This catalog maps such references to the built-in local copies of the
            schemas of the <ph keyref="product"/>
            frameworks: DocBook, DITA, TEI, XHTML, SVG, etc.</p>
        </li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>You can also add or configure catalogs at framework level in the <xref href="preferences-document-type-association.dita">Document Type Association</xref>
      preferences page.</p>
    <p>When you add, delete or edit an XML catalog to / from the list, reopen the currently edited
      files which use the modified catalog or run <xref
        href="validation-actions-in-user-interface.dita#validation-actions-in-user-interface"
        format="dita">the <uicontrol>Validate</uicontrol> action </xref> so that the XML catalog
      changes take full effect.</p>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link
      href="http://xerces.apache.org/xml-commons/components/resolver/resolver-article.html#ctrlresolver"
      format="html" scope="external"/>
    <link href="using-XML-Catalogs.dita#using-XML-Catalogs"/>
  </related-links>
</topic>
