<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-editor-document-checking">
  <title>Document Validation Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Preferences<indexterm>Document Validation</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Validation preferences</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_i4p_bgk_54b">To configure document validation options, <ph
        conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Document Validation</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>. This page contains preferences for configuring how a document is checked for
      both well-formedness and validation errors.</p>
    <p id="p_j4p_bgk_54b">The following options are available:<dl id="dl_k4p_bgk_54b">
        <dlentry id="maximum-number-highlights">
          <dt><uicontrol>Maximum number of validation highlights</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If a validation generates more errors than the number specified in this option, only
            the errors up to this number are highlighted in the editor panel and on the stripe that
            is displayed at the right side of the editor panel. This option applies to both
            automatic validation and manual validation.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse" id="dlentry_l4p_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Include problem ID in description</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If this option is selected, validation issues listed in the
              <uicontrol>Results</uicontrol> view or <uicontrol>Problems</uicontrol> view will
            include the problem ID (as provided by the validation engine) in the
              <uicontrol>Description</uicontrol> column.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse" id="dlentry_m4p_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Clear validation markers on close</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If this option is selected, all the error markers added in the
              <uicontrol>Problems</uicontrol> view for that document are removed when the <ph
              keyref="product"/> plugin is closed.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="author developer editor json" id="dlentry_n4p_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Validation fatal error highlight color</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>The color used to highlight fatal validation errors in the document.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="author developer editor json" id="dlentry_o4p_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Validation error highlight color</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>The color used to highlight validation errors in the document.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="author developer editor json" id="dlentry_p4p_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Validation warning highlight color</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>The color used to highlight validation warnings in the document.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="author developer editor json" id="dlentry_q4p_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Validation info highlight color</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>The color used to highlight validation info messages in the document.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="author developer editor json" id="dlentry_r4p_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Validation success color</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>The color used to highlight the success indicator of the validation operation in the
            vertical ruler bar.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="author developer editor json" id="dlentry_s4p_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Always show validation status</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If this option is selected, the current validation error or warning is always visible
            in the message line at the bottom of the editor panel. This is useful when the
              <uicontrol>Enable automatic validation</uicontrol> option is selected and the vertical
            scroll bar changes position due to an error message being displayed.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="enable-auto-validation">
          <dt><uicontrol>Enable automatic validation</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>This causes the validation to be automatically executed in the background as the
            document is modified in <ph keyref="product"/>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="delay-after-event">
          <dt><uicontrol>Delay after the last key event (s)</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>The period of keyboard inactivity before starting a new validation (in seconds).</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
    <p product="author developer editor json" id="p_t4p_bgk_54b">At the bottom of the preferences
      page you can <xref href="preferences-storing.dita">choose whether or not the saved options
        will be shared with other users by selecting <uicontrol>Global</uicontrol> or
          <uicontrol>Project</uicontrol> storage options</xref>.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
