<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-xsltproc">
  <title>XSLTProc Preferences</title><prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>Configure the Application<indexterm>XSLT/FO/XQuery preferences<indexterm>XSLTProc</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>The <uicontrol>XSLTProc</uicontrol> preferences panel is opened from menu <menucascade>
        <uicontrol product="editor author svnClient developer">Options</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol product="editorEclipse authorEclipse developerEclipse">Window</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol product="editorEclipse developerEclipse">oXygen XML Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol product="authorEclipse">Author</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>XML</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>XSLT/FO/XQuery</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>XSLT</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>XSLTProc</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>.</p>
    <p>The options of the XSLTProc processor are the same as the ones available in the command
      line:</p>
    <ul>
      <li><uicontrol>Enable XInclude processing</uicontrol> - If checked, XInclude references will
        be resolved when XSLTProc is used as transformer in <xref href="../concepts/transformation-scenario.dita">XSLT transformation scenarios</xref>.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Skip loading the document's DTD</uicontrol> - If checked, the DTD specified in
        the DOCTYPE declaration will not be loaded.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Do not apply default attributes from document's DTD</uicontrol> - If checked,
        the default attributes declared in the DTD and not specified in the document are not
        included in the transformed document.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Do not use Internet to fetch DTD's, entities or docs</uicontrol> - If checked,
        the remote references to DTD's and entities are not followed.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Maximum depth in templates stack</uicontrol> - If this limit of maximum
        templates depth is reached the transformation ends with an error.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Verbosity</uicontrol> - If checked, the transformation will output detailed
        status messages about the transformation process in the <uicontrol>Warnings</uicontrol>
        view.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Show version of libxml and libxslt used</uicontrol> - If checked, <ph keyref="product"/> will display in the
          <uicontrol>Warnings</uicontrol> view the version of the <b>libxml</b> and <b>libxslt</b>
        libraries invoked by XSLTProc.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Show time information</uicontrol> - If checked, the
          <uicontrol>Warnings</uicontrol> view will display the time necessary for running the
        transformation.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Show debug information</uicontrol> - If checked, the
          <uicontrol>Warnings</uicontrol> view will display debug information about what templates
        are matched, parameter values, etc.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Show all documents loaded during processing</uicontrol> - If checked, <ph keyref="product"/> will display in the
          <uicontrol>Warnings</uicontrol> view the URL of all the files loaded during
        transformation.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Show profile information</uicontrol> - If checked, <ph keyref="product"/> will display in the
          <uicontrol>Warnings</uicontrol> view a table with all the matched templates, and for each
        template will display: the match XPath expression, the template name, the number of template
        modes, the number of calls, the execution time.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Show the list of registered extensions</uicontrol> - If checked, <ph keyref="product"/> will display in the
          <uicontrol>Warnings</uicontrol> view a list with all the registered extension functions,
        extension elements and extension modules.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Refuses to write to any file or resource</uicontrol> - If checked, the XSLTProc
        processor will not write any part of the transformation result to an external file on disk.
        If such an operation is requested by the processed XSLT stylesheet the transformation ends
        with a runtime error.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Refuses to create directories</uicontrol> - If checked, the XSLTProc processor
        will not create any directory during the transformation process. If such an operation is
        requested by the processed XSLT stylesheet the transformation ends with a runtime
        error.</li>
    </ul>
  </body>
</topic>