<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-profiling-conditions">
  <title>Profiling / Conditional Text Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Configure the Application<indexterm>Editor preferences<indexterm>author profiling
              conditional text</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> lets you configure how <xref keyref="author_profiling">profiling and
        conditional text</xref> is displayed in <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode. It has built in
      support for the standard conditional text features of DITA and DocBook, which you can
      customize for your own projects. You can also add conditional support for other XML
      vocabularies, including your custom vocabularies. </p>
    <p>To configure <uicontrol>Profiling/Conditional Text</uicontrol> options, <ph
        conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Edit modes</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Profiling/Conditional Text</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>.</p>
    <p>
      <note type="note">Note the following when configuring this setting:<ul id="ul_a13_x5s_hp">
          <li>This setting is used to define how profiled elements are treated in
              <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode. It does not create profiling or conditional text
            attributes or values in the underlying XML vocabulary. It just changes how the editor
            displays them.</li>
          <li>This setting should be used for profiling / conditional text elements only. To change
            how other types of attributes are displayed in the text, use a CSS style sheet. </li>
          <li>If you are using the DITA XML vocabulary and a DITA Subject Scheme Map is defined in
            the root map of your document, it will be used in place of anything defined using this
            dialog box.</li>
        </ul></note>
    </p>
    <p>This preferences page contains the following options:<ul id="ul_vms_ksl_hp">
        <li><uicontrol>Import from DITAVAL</uicontrol> - This button allows you to import profiling
          attributes from <filepath>.ditaval</filepath> files. You can merge these new profiling
          attributes with the existing ones, or replace them completely. If the imported attributes
          conflict with the existing ones, <ph keyref="product"/> displays a dialog box that
          contains two tables. The first one previews the imported attributes and the second one
          previews the already defined attributes. You can choose to either keep the existing
          attributes or replace them with the imported ones.<note>When importing profiling
            attributes from DITAVAL files, <ph keyref="product"/> automatically creates condition
            sets based on these files.</note></li>
        <li id="profiling-attributes-section"><uicontrol>Profiling Attributes</uicontrol> section -
          Allows you to specify a set of allowable value for each profiling or conditional
          attribute. You can use the <uicontrol>New </uicontrol> button at the bottom of the table
            <xref
            href="../tasks/profiling-attributes-management.dita#profiling-attributes-management">to
            add profiling attributes</xref>, the <uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol> button to edit existing
          ones, or the <uicontrol>Delete</uicontrol> button to delete entries from the table. Use
          the <uicontrol>Up</uicontrol> and <uicontrol>Down</uicontrol> buttons to change the
          priority of the entries. If you have multiple entries with identical names that match the
          same document type, <ph keyref="product"/> uses the one that is positioned highest in the
          table. </li>
        <li id="condition-sets-section"><uicontrol>Profiling Condition Sets</uicontrol> section -
          Allows you to specify a specific set of profiling attributes to be used to specify a
          particular build configuration for your content. You can use the <uicontrol>New
          </uicontrol> button at the bottom of the table <xref
            href="../tasks/condition-sets-management.dita#condition-sets-management">to add
            condition sets</xref>, the <uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol> button to edit existing ones, or
          the <uicontrol>Delete</uicontrol> button to delete entries from the table. Use the
            <uicontrol>Up</uicontrol> and <uicontrol>Down</uicontrol> buttons to change the priority
          of the entries. If you have multiple entries with identical names that match the same
          document type, <ph keyref="product"/> uses the one that is positioned highest in the
          table.</li>
      </ul></p>
  </body>
</topic>