<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-encoding">
  <title>Encoding Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Preferences<indexterm>Encoding</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>UTF-8 BOM handling</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Encoding preferences</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_tk4_bgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> lets you configure how character encodings are recognized when opening
      files and which encodings are used when saving files. To configure encoding options, <ph
        conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to
        <uicontrol>Encoding</uicontrol>.</p>
    <p id="p_uk4_bgk_54b">The following encoding options are available:<dl id="dl_vk4_bgk_54b">
        <dlentry id="dlentry_wk4_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Fallback character encoding</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the default character encoding of non-XML documents if their character
            encoding cannot be determined from other sources (for example, it is not specified in
            the document or determined by the file type).<note id="note_xk4_bgk_54b">For certain document types, the
              following encoding detection rules are used:<ul id="ul_yk4_bgk_54b">
                <li id="li_zk4_bgk_54b">For XML, DTD, and CSS documents, <ph keyref="product"/> tries to collect the
                  character encoding from the document. If no such encoding is found, then
                    <i>UTF-8</i> is used.</li>
                <li id="li_al4_bgk_54b">For JavaScript, JSON, SQL, XQuery, and RNC, the <i>UTF-8</i> encoding is
                  used.</li>
              </ul></note></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="author developer editor json" id="dlentry_bl4_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>UTF-8 BOM handling</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>This setting specifies how to handle the <i>Byte Order Mark</i> (BOM) when <ph
              keyref="product"/> saves a UTF-8 XML document: <ul id="ul_cl4_bgk_54b">
              <li id="li_dl4_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Keep</uicontrol> (default) - Do not alter the BOM
                declaration of the currently open file.</li>
              <li id="li_el4_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Write</uicontrol> - Save the BOM bytes.</li>
              <li id="li_fl4_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Don't Write</uicontrol> - Do not save the BOM
                bytes. Loaded BOM bytes are ignored.</li>
            </ul><note id="note_gl4_bgk_54b">The UTF-16 BOM is always preserved. UTF-32 documents
              have a <i>big-endian</i> byte order.</note></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="encoding-errors-handling">
          <dt><uicontrol>Encoding errors handling</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>This setting specifies how to handle characters that cannot be represented in the
            character encoding that is used when the document is opened. The available options are:<ul id="ul_hl4_bgk_54b">
              <li id="li_il4_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>REPORT</uicontrol> (default) - Displays an error identifying the
                character that cannot be represented in the specified encoding. Unrecognized
                characters are rendered as an empty box.</li>
              <li id="li_jl4_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>REPLACE</uicontrol> - The character is replaced with a standard
                replacement character. For example, if the encoding is UTF-8, the replacement
                character has the Unicode code <codeph>FFFD</codeph>, and if the encoding is ASCII,
                the replacement character code is 63.</li>
              <li id="li_kl4_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>IGNORE</uicontrol> - The error is ignored and the character is not
                included in the document displayed in the editor.<note type="attention" id="note_ll4_bgk_54b">If you edit
                  and save the document, the characters that cannot be represented in the specified
                  encoding are dropped.</note></li>
            </ul></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="author developer editor" id="encoding-dlentry">
          <dt><uicontrol>Encoding for Base64, Base32, Hex conversions</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Specifies the encoding to be used when invoking the <uicontrol>Encode
              Selection</uicontrol> or <uicontrol>Decode Selection</uicontrol> actions for <xref
              href="text-mode-actions.dita#text-mode-actions/base64-encode-decode"
              ><i>Base64</i></xref>, <xref
              href="text-mode-actions.dita#text-mode-actions/base32-encode-decode"
              ><i>Base32</i></xref>, or <xref
              href="text-mode-actions.dita#text-mode-actions/hex-encode-decode"><i>Hex</i>
              conversions</xref>. The default setting is <i>UTF8</i>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_ml4_bgk_54b">
          <dt>Encode non-ASCII characters in URL paths</dt>
          <dd>If selected (default), <ph keyref="product"/> will escape non-ASCII characters (encode
            them with their hexadecimal equivalent) within URL paths. If you are using a non-Latin
            alphabet (such as Arab, Japanese, Chinese), it may be beneficial to deselect this option
            so that non-ASCII characters in URL paths will not be escaped and will remain more
            readable.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </body>
</topic>
