<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-xml-instances-generator">
  <title>XML Instances Generator Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Configure the Application<indexterm>XML instances
          generator</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>The <uicontrol>XML Instances Generator</uicontrol> preferences panel is opened from menu <menucascade>
        <uicontrol product="editor developer">Options</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol product="editorEclipse developerEclipse">Window</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol product="editorEclipse developerEclipse">oXygen XML Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>XML</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>XML Instances Generator</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>. It sets the default parameters of the <uicontrol>Generate Sample XML
        Files</uicontrol> tool that is available on the <uicontrol>Tools</uicontrol> menu.</p>
    <p>The options of the tool that generates XML instance documents based on a W3C XML Schema are
      the following:</p>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><uicontrol>Generate optional elements</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>If checked, the elements declared optional in the schema will be generated in the XML
          instance.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><uicontrol>Generate optional attributes</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>If checked, the attributes declared optional in the schema will be generated in the XML
          instance.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><uicontrol>Values of elements and attributes</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>Specifies what values are generated in elements and attributes of the XML instance. It
          can have one of the values:<ul>
            <li><uicontrol>None</uicontrol> - no values for the generated elements and
              attributes</li>
            <li><uicontrol>Default</uicontrol> - the value is the element name or attribute
              name</li>
            <li><uicontrol>Random</uicontrol> - a random value</li>
          </ul></dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><uicontrol>Preferred number of repetitions</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>If the values set here is greater than <codeph>maxOccurs</codeph>, then the
            <codeph>maxOccurs</codeph> is used.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><uicontrol>Maximum recursivity level</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>For recursive type definitions this parameter specifies the number of levels of
          recursive elements inserted in the parent element with the same name.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><uicontrol>Type alternative strategy</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>Specifies how the element type alternatives are generated in the XML instance:<ul>
            <li><uicontrol>First</uicontrol> - the first element type alternative whose XPath
              condition is true is used;</li>
            <li><uicontrol>Random</uicontrol> - a random element type alternative whose XPath
              condition is true is used;<note>In case no XPath condition is true, the default
                element type alternative is used.</note></li>
            <li>
              <note>To evaluate an XPath expression, either the values of the attributes defined in
                the <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol> tab of the <uicontrol>XML Instance
                  Generator</uicontrol> dialog, or the attributes values defined in the XML Schema
                are used. </note>
            </li>
          </ul></dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><uicontrol>Choice strategy</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>For <keyword>choice</keyword> element models specifies what choice will be generated in
          the XML instance:<ul>
            <li><uicontrol>First</uicontrol> - the first choice is selected from the
                <keyword>choice</keyword> definition and an instance of that choice is generated in
              the XML instance document.</li>
            <li><uicontrol>Random</uicontrol> - a random choice is selected from the
                <keyword>choice</keyword> definition and an instance of that will be generated.</li>
          </ul></dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><uicontrol>Generate the other options as comments</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>If checked, the other options of the <keyword>choice</keyword> element model (the
          options which are not selected) will be generated inside an XML comment in the XML
          instance.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry id="use-incremental-names">
        <dt><uicontrol>Use incremental attribute / element names as default</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>If checked, the value of an element or attribute starts with the name of that element or
          attribute. For example, for an <codeph>a</codeph> element the generated values are:
            <codeph>a1</codeph>, <codeph>a2</codeph>, <codeph>a3</codeph>, etc. If not checked, the
          value is the name of the type of that element / attribute, for example:
            <codeph>string</codeph>, <codeph>decimal</codeph>, etc.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry id="maximim-length">
        <dt><uicontrol>Maximum length</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>The maximum length of string values generated for elements and attributes.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry id="discard-optional-elements">
        <dt><uicontrol>Discard optional elements after nested level</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>The optional elements that exceed the specified nested level are discarded. This option
          is useful for limiting deeply nested element definitions that can quickly result in very
          large XML documents.</dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
  </body>
</topic>
