<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-view">
  <title>View Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>Configure the Application<indexterm>views</indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>The <uicontrol>Views</uicontrol> preferences panel is opened from menu <menucascade>
        <uicontrol product="editor author developer">Options</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol product="editorEclipse authorEclipse developerEclipse">Window</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol product="editorEclipse developerEclipse">oXygen XML Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol product="authorEclipse">Author</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Views</uicontrol>
      </menucascade> and contains the following preferences:</p>
    <ul>
      <li product="editor author developer"><uicontrol>Enable drag-and-drop in Project
          view</uicontrol> - Enables the drag and drop support in <uicontrol>Project</uicontrol>
        view. It should be disabled only if there is a possibility to accidentally change the
        structure of the project by such drag and drop actions.</li>
      <li product="author developer editor"><uicontrol>Format and indent on save</uicontrol> - If
        selected, <ph keyref="product"/>will run the action <uicontrol>Format and Indent</uicontrol>
        (pretty-print) on saving a document edited in the tree editor.</li>
      <li product="editor author developer"><uicontrol>Maximum number of lines</uicontrol> - Sets
        the maximum number of lines in the <uicontrol>Information</uicontrol> view.</li>
      <li product="editorEclipse authorEclipse developerEclipse"><uicontrol>Fixed width
          console</uicontrol> - If checked, a line in the <uicontrol>Console</uicontrol> view will
        be hard wrapped after the maximum numbers of characters allowed on a line.</li>
      <li product="editorEclipse authorEclipse developerEclipse"><uicontrol>Limit console
          output</uicontrol> - If checked, the content of the <uicontrol>Console</uicontrol> view
        will be limited to a configurable number of characters.</li>
      <li product="editorEclipse authorEclipse developerEclipse"><uicontrol>Console
          buffer</uicontrol> - Specifies the maximum number of characters that can be written in the
          <uicontrol>Console</uicontrol> view.</li>
      <li product="editorEclipse authorEclipse developerEclipse"><uicontrol>Tab width</uicontrol> -
        Specifies the number of spaces used for depicting a tab character.</li>
    </ul>
  </body>
</topic>