<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-editor-print">
  <title>Print Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Configure the Application<indexterm>Editor
              preferences<indexterm>print</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>To open the <uicontrol>Print</uicontrol> preferences page, go to <menucascade
        product="editor author developer">
        <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol product="editor author developer">Print</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>
      <menucascade product="editorEclipse authorEclipse developerEclipse">
        <uicontrol>Window</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>oXygen XML Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol product="editorEclipse authorEclipse developerEclipse">Edit modes</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>. This page allows you to customize the information printed on the header and
      footer of a page. These settings do not apply to the <uicontrol>Grid</uicontrol> and
        <uicontrol>Schema Diagram</uicontrol> modes.</p>
    <p>You can customize the information printed in the one-row header and footer of a page. The
      following options are available:<ul>
        <li><uicontrol>Left</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Middle</uicontrol> and
            <uicontrol>Right</uicontrol> area of the header and footer. Here you can write a pattern
          of the text printed in the header and footer of the page. You can use the following editor
          variables to write the text pattern:<ul>
            <li conref="editor-variables.dita#editor-variables/edVar-currentFileURL"/>
            <li conref="editor-variables.dita#editor-variables/edVar-cfne"/>
            <li conref="editor-variables.dita#editor-variables/edVar_cp"/>
            <li conref="editor-variables.dita#editor-variables/edVar_tp"/>
            <li conref="editor-variables.dita#editor-variables/edvar-env"/>
            <li conref="editor-variables.dita#editor-variables/edVar-system"/>
            <li conref="editor-variables.dita#editor-variables/edVar-date"/>
          </ul><note>As an example, to show the current page number against the total number of
            pages in the top right corner of the page, write the following pattern in the
              <uicontrol>Right</uicontrol> text area of the <uicontrol>Header</uicontrol> section:
              <codeph>${cp} from ${tp}</codeph>.</note></li>
        <li><uicontrol>Color</uicontrol> - Text color.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Font</uicontrol> - Font type. Default is <codeph>SansSerif</codeph>.<p
            product="author developer editor">To edit this fields use the
              <uicontrol>Choose</uicontrol> and <uicontrol>Reset</uicontrol> buttons. The
              <uicontrol>Choose</uicontrol> button opens a dialog that allows you to configure the
              <uicontrol>Font family</uicontrol>, the <uicontrol>Font size</uicontrol> and whether
            the text is rendered bold. A preview window is also available. The
              <uicontrol>Reset</uicontrol> button restores the setting to their default values.
          </p></li>
        <li><uicontrol>Underline/Overline</uicontrol> - When selected, a separator line is drawn
          between the header/footer and the page content.</li>
      </ul></p>
  </body>
</topic>
