<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-svn-working-copy">
  <title>Working Copy Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Preferences<indexterm>SVN Working Copy</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>To configure the <uicontrol>Working Copy</uicontrol> preferences, <ph
        conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>SVN</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Working Copy</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>. The options in this preferences page are specific to SVN working copies and
      they include the following:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Working copies location</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Allows you to define a location where you keep your working copies. This location is
            automatically suggested when you checkout a new working copy.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Working copy administrative directory</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Allows you to customize the directory name where the SVN entries are kept for each
            directory in the working copy.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="svn-load-old-wc-format">
          <dt><uicontrol>When loading an old format working copy</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>You can instruct the SVN client to do one of the following:<ul>
              <li><uicontrol>Always ask</uicontrol> - You are notified when such a working copy is
                used and you are allowed to choose what action to be taken (whether or not to
                upgrade the format of the current working copy).</li>
              <li><uicontrol>Never upgrade</uicontrol> - Older format working copies are left
                untouched. No attempt to upgrade the format is made.<note>SVN 1.6 and older working
                  copies still need to be upgraded before loading them.</note></li>
            </ul></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Enable working copy caching</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected, the content of the working copies is cached for refresh operations.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Automatically refresh the working copy</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected, the working copy is refreshed from cache. Only the new changes
            (modifications with a date/time that follows the last refresh operation) are refreshed
            from disk. <ph product="editor author developer">This option is not selected by
              default.</ph><ph product="svnClient">This option is selected by default.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Allow moving/renaming mixed revision directories</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected, <ph keyref="product"/> will allow you to move or rename a directory even
            if its child items have a different revision. Otherwise, an error message is displayed
            when there are multiple revisions to avoid unnecessary conflicts. It is recommended to
            leave this option deselected and to <uicontrol>Update</uicontrol> the subtree to a
            single revision before moving or renaming it.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>When synchronizing with repository</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>The action that will be executed automatically after the
              <uicontrol>Synchronize</uicontrol> action. The possible actions are:<ul>
              <li><uicontrol>Always switch to 'Modified' mode</uicontrol> - The
                  <uicontrol>Synchronize</uicontrol> action is followed automatically by a switch to
                  <uicontrol>Modified</uicontrol> mode of <uicontrol>Working Copy</uicontrol> view,
                if <uicontrol>All Files</uicontrol> mode is currently selected.</li>
              <li><uicontrol>Never switch to 'Modified' mode</uicontrol> - Keeps the currently
                selected view mode unchanged.</li>
              <li><uicontrol>Always ask</uicontrol> - The user is always asked if they want to
                switch to <uicontrol>Modified</uicontrol> mode.</li>
            </ul></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="svn-options-app-global-ignores">
          <dt><uicontrol>Application global ignores</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Allows you to set file patterns that may include the <codeph>*</codeph> and
              <codeph>?</codeph> wildcards for unversioned files and folders that must be ignored
            when displaying the working copy resources in <xref href="working-copy-view.dita">the
                <uicontrol>Working Copy</uicontrol> view</xref>. These patterns are case-sensitive.
            For example,<codeph>*.txt</codeph> matches <codeph>file.txt</codeph>, but does not match
              <codeph>file.TXT</codeph>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </body>
</topic>
