<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-content-completion-xsl">
  <title>XSLT Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Preferences<indexterm>XSLT Content Completion</indexterm>
        </indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_shp_bgk_54b">XSLT stylesheets are often used to create output in XHTML or XSL-FO. In addition to
      suggesting content completion options for XSLT stylesheet elements, <ph keyref="product"/> can
      suggest elements from these vocabularies. To configure the XSLT content completion options,
        <ph conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Content Completion</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>XSLT</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>.</p>
    <p id="p_thp_bgk_54b">The following options are available:<dl id="dl_uhp_bgk_54b">
        <dlentry id="dlentry_vhp_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Include elements declared in the schema</uicontrol> section</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_whp_bgk_54b">This section includes options with regard to detecting elements from the declared
              schema.</p>
            <p id="p_xhp_bgk_54b">
              <dl id="dl_yhp_bgk_54b">
                <dlentry id="dlentry_zhp_bgk_54b">
                  <dt><uicontrol>Automatically detect HTML or Formatting Objects</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Detects if the output being generated is HTML or FO and provides content
                    completion for those vocabularies. <ph keyref="product"/> analyzes the
                    namespaces declared in the root element to find an appropriate schema.</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p>
            <p id="p_a3p_bgk_54b">If the detection fails, <ph keyref="product"/> uses one of the following options:<ul
                id="ul_lvw_rhb_1jb">
                <li id="li_b3p_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>None</uicontrol> - The <xref
                    keyref="glossentry_content-completion-assistant"><term>Content Completion
                      Assistant</term></xref> suggests only XSLT elements.</li>
                <li id="li_c3p_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>HTML</uicontrol> - The <xref
                    keyref="glossentry_content-completion-assistant"><term>Content Completion
                      Assistant</term></xref> includes HTML elements, including HTML5 elements (such
                  as <xmlelement>video</xmlelement>, <xmlelement>canvas</xmlelement>, etc.).</li>
                <li id="li_d3p_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Formatting objects</uicontrol> - The <xref
                    keyref="glossentry_content-completion-assistant"><term>Content Completion
                      Assistant</term></xref> includes Formatting Objects (XSL-FO) elements as
                  substitutes for <xmlelement>xsl:element</xmlelement>.</li>
                <li id="li_e3p_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Custom schema</uicontrol> - If you want content completion hints for
                  another output vocabulary, you can use this option to specify the path to the
                  schema for that vocabulary. The supported schema types are DTD, XML Schema, RNG
                  schema, or NVDL schema for inserting elements from the target language of the
                  stylesheet.</li>
              </ul></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_f3p_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Documentation schema</uicontrol> section</dt>
          <dd>This section specifies an additional schema that will be used for documenting XSL
            stylesheets. You can choose between the following:<ul id="ul_stb_cjg_ps">
              <li id="li_g3p_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Built-in schema</uicontrol> - Uses the built-in schema for
                documentation.</li>
              <li id="li_h3p_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Custom schema</uicontrol> - Allows you to specify a custom schema for
                documentation. The supported schema types are XSD, RNG, RNC, DTD, and NVDL.</li>
            </ul></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </body>
</topic>
