<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="preferences-profiler">
  <title>Profiler Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Preferences<indexterm>XSLT Profiler</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Preferences<indexterm>XQuery Profiler</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>XSLT Profiler preferences</indexterm>
        <indexterm>XQuery Profiler preferences</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_c3q_bgk_54b">This section explains the settings available for the XSLT/XQuery Profiler. To access and
      modify these settings, <ph conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/>
      and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>XML</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>XSLT-XQuery</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Profiler</uicontrol>
      </menucascade> (see <xref href="preferences-debugger.dita"/>).</p>
    <p id="p_d3q_bgk_54b">The following profiler settings are available:<dl id="dl_e3q_bgk_54b">
        <dlentry id="dlentry_f3q_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Show time</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Shows the total time that was spent in the call.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_g3q_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Show inherent time</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Shows the inherent time that was spent in the call. The inherent time is defined as
            the total time of a call minus the time of its child calls.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_h3q_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Show invocation count</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Shows how many times the call was called in this particular call sequence.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_i3q_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Time scale</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Determines the unit of time measurement. You can choose between milliseconds or
            microseconds.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_j3q_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Hotspot threshold</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd><i>Hotspots</i> are ignored below this specified amount (in milliseconds). For more
            information, see <xref href="hotspots-view.dita"/>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_k3q_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Ignore invocation less than</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd><i>Invocations</i> are ignored below this specified amount (in microseconds). For more
            information, see <xref href="invocation-tree-view.dita"/>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_l3q_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Percentage calculation</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>The percentage base that determines what time span percentages are calculated against.
            You can choose between the following:<ul id="ul_m3q_bgk_54b">
              <li id="li_n3q_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Absolute</uicontrol> - Percentage values show the contribution to the
                total time.</li>
              <li id="li_o3q_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Relative</uicontrol> - Percentage values show the contribution to the
                calling call.</li>
            </ul></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </body>
</topic>
