<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="rectangular-selection">
  <title>Selecting Content in Text Mode</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Text editing mode<indexterm>Selecting content</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Text editing mode<indexterm>Rectangular selection</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>XML documents<indexterm>Text Mode editing<indexterm>Selecting
            content</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>XML documents<indexterm>Text Mode editing<indexterm>Rectangular
              selection</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Selecting content in Text Mode</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Rectangular Selection feature</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> includes a variety of keyboard shortcuts that allow you to select
      content in <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode. These include numerous standard continuous
      selection possibilities that are common to many text editors<ph
        product="author developer editor">, as well as a selection feature that allows you to select
        a rectangular area within a document in <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode</ph>. </p>
    <section
      conkeyref="reusables-editing-documents/standard_selection_section"
      id="standard_continuous_selection_shortcuts"></section>
    <section product="author developer editor" id="rectangular_selection_feature">
      <title>Rectangular Selection Shortcuts</title>
      <p><ph keyref="product"/> also includes some keyboard shortcuts that allow you to select a
        rectangular block of content in <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode and you can then copy, cut,
        paste, delete, or edit the selection.<note type="attention">The rectangular selection
          shortcuts will not work if the <xref
            href="preferences-editor-text.dita#preferences-editor-text/line-wrap"><uicontrol>Line
              Wrap</uicontrol> option</xref> is selected in the <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol>
          preferences page.</note></p>
      <p>The following shortcuts can be used to create a rectangular selection:<dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><uicontrol><shortcut>Alt + Mouse Click + Mouse Movement</shortcut> (<shortcut>Alt +
                  Meta + Mouse Click + Mouse Movement</shortcut> on Mac OS X)</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>Begins a rectangular selection at the mouse click position and extends it in the
              direction that you move the mouse. Release <uicontrol><shortcut>Alt</shortcut>
                  (<shortcut>Alt + Meta</shortcut> on Mac OS X)</uicontrol> to enter the <xref
                href="#rectangular-selection/in-place-editing" format="dita"><term>in-place
                  editing</term> mode</xref>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><uicontrol><shortcut>Shift + Alt + Left/Right Arrow Keys</shortcut> (<shortcut>Shift
                  + Alt + Meta + Left/Right Arrow Keys</shortcut> on Mac OS X)</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>Begins a rectangular selection at the cursor position and extends it one character
              at a time in the direction that you press the arrow keys (you can also use the mouse
              to extend the selection).</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><uicontrol><shortcut>Shift + Alt + Up/Down Arrow Keys</shortcut> (<shortcut>Shift +
                  Alt + Meta + Up/Down Arrow Keys</shortcut> on Mac OS X)</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>Begins a rectangular selection at the cursor position and extends it one line at a
              time in the direction that you press the arrow keys (you can also use the mouse to
              extend the selection).</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><uicontrol><shortcut>Ctrl + Shift + Alt + Left/Right Arrow Keys</shortcut>
                  (<shortcut>Ctrl + Shift + Alt + Meta + Left/Right Arrow Keys</shortcut> on Mac OS
                X)</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>Begins a rectangular selection at the cursor position and extends it one word at a
              time in the direction that you press the arrow keys.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><uicontrol><shortcut>Shift + Alt + Home</shortcut> (<shortcut>Shift + Alt + Meta +
                  Home</shortcut> on Mac OS X)</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>Begins a rectangular selection at the cursor position and extends it to the
              beginning of the current line.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><uicontrol><shortcut>Shift + Alt + End</shortcut> (<shortcut>Shift + Alt + Meta +
                  End</shortcut> on Mac OS X)</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>Begins a rectangular selection at the cursor position and extends it to the end of
              the current line.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><uicontrol><shortcut>Shift + Alt + PageUp</shortcut> (<shortcut>Shift + Alt + Meta +
                  PageUp</shortcut> on Mac OS X)</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>Begins a rectangular selection at the cursor position and extends it up one screen
              page.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><uicontrol><shortcut>Shift + Alt + PageDown</shortcut> (<shortcut>Shift + Alt + Meta
                  + PageDown</shortcut> on Mac OS X)</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>Begins a rectangular selection at the cursor position and extends it down one screen
              page.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl></p>
      <p>You can then use standard editing actions to copy, cut, paste, or delete the entire
        selection.</p>
      <sectiondiv id="in-place-editing"><b>In-Place Editing Mode</b><p>To edit the content of the
          rectangular selection, you can enter an in-place editing mode by releasing the
              <uicontrol><shortcut>Alt</shortcut></uicontrol> key (on Mac OS X, release both
              <uicontrol><shortcut>Alt</shortcut></uicontrol> &amp;
              <uicontrol><shortcut>Meta</shortcut></uicontrol>). Once you are in the editing mode,
          you can simply use your keyboard to edit the entire selection of content, or click
          anywhere inside the selection to edit the content at the cursor position for all lines
          within the selection at once (as if the rectangular selection is a selection of columns).
          To exit the editing mode, press either <uicontrol><shortcut>Enter</shortcut></uicontrol>
          or <uicontrol><shortcut>Esc</shortcut></uicontrol>.</p></sectiondiv>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
