<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="refreshing-webhelp-feedback">
  <title>Refreshing the Content of a Feedback-Enabled System (Deprecated)</title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_bbp_cgk_54b">It is common to update the content of an existing installation of a <b>WebHelp with
        Feedback</b> system on a regular basis. In this case, reinstalling the whole system is not a
      viable option since it might result in the loss of the comments associated with your topics.
      Also, reconfiguring the system every time you want to refresh it may be time consuming. </p>
    <p id="p_cbp_cgk_54b">Fortunately, you can refresh just the content without losing the comments or the initial
      system configuration. To do so, follow these steps:</p>
    <ol id="ol_w4l_t1q_xs">
      <li id="li_dbp_cgk_54b">Execute the transformation scenario that produces the <i>WebHelp with Feedback</i> output
        directory.</li>
      <li id="li_ebp_cgk_54b">Go to the output directory (specified in the <uicontrol>Output</uicontrol> tab of the
        transformation scenario), locate the
          <filepath>\feedback\resources\php\config\config.php</filepath> file, and delete it.</li>
      <li id="li_fbp_cgk_54b">Locate the <filepath>\feedback\install</filepath> directory and delete it.</li>
      <li id="li_gbp_cgk_54b">Copy the remaining structure of the output folder and paste it into your <i>WebHelp with
          Feedback</i> system installation directory, overwriting the existing content.</li>
    </ol>
  </body>
</topic>
