<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="refreshing-webhelp-responsive-feedback">
  <title><?oxy_comment_start author="steven_higgs" timestamp="20160418T145240+0300" comment="Almost identical to &quot;Refreshing the Content of a WebHelp Classic with Feedback System&quot;. At some point, we should reference one in both sections and make the name generic (such as &quot;feedback-enabled WebHelp system)."?>Refreshing
    the Content of a WebHelp Responsive with Feedback System<?oxy_comment_end?></title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>WebHelp Responsive with Feedback system<indexterm>Refreshing
          content</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>It is common to update the content of an existing installation of a <term>WebHelp Responsive
        with Feedback</term> system on a regular basis. In this case, reinstalling the whole system
      is not a viable option since it might result in the loss of the comments associated with your
      topics. Also, reconfiguring the system every time you want to refresh it may be time
      consuming. </p>
    <p>Fortunately, you can refresh just the content without losing the comments or the initial
      system configuration. To do so, follow these steps:</p>
    <ol id="ol_w4l_t1q_xs">
      <li>Execute the transformation scenario that produces the <term>WebHelp Responsive with
          Feedback</term> output directory.</li>
      <li>Go to the output directory (specified in the <uicontrol>Output</uicontrol> tab of the
        transformation scenario), locate the
          <filepath>\feedback\resources\php\config\config.php</filepath> file, and delete it.</li>
      <li>Locate the <filepath>\feedback\install</filepath> directory and delete it.</li>
      <li>Copy the remaining structure of the output folder and paste it into your <term>WebHelp
          Responsive with Feedback</term> system installation directory, overwriting the existing
        content.</li>
    </ol>
  </body>
</topic>
