<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="relax-ng-schema-diagram-actions">
  <title>Actions Available in the Diagram View</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Editing Relax NG Schemas<indexterm>schema
            diagram<indexterm>actions</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>The contextual menu offers the following actions: </p>
    <ul>
      <li><uicontrol>Append child</uicontrol> - Appends a child to the selected component.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Insert Before</uicontrol> - Inserts a component before the selected
        component.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Insert After</uicontrol> - Inserts a component after the selected
        component.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Edit attributes</uicontrol> - Edits the attributes of the selected
        component.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Remove</uicontrol> - Removes the selected component.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Show only the selected component</uicontrol> - Depending on its state
        (selected/not selected), either the selected component or all the diagram components are
        shown.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Show Annotations</uicontrol> - Depending on its state (selected/not selected),
        the documentation nodes are shown or hidden.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Auto expand to references</uicontrol> - This option controls how the schema
        diagram is automatically expanded. If you select it and then edit a top-level element or you
        make a refresh, the diagram is expanded until it reaches referred components. If this option
        is left unchecked, only the first level of the diagram is expanded, showing the top-level
        elements. For large schemas, the editor disables this option automatically.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Collapse Children</uicontrol> - Collapses the children of the selected
        view.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Expand Children</uicontrol> - Expands the children of the selected view.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Print Selection...</uicontrol> - Prints the selected view.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Save as Image...</uicontrol> - Saves the current selection as JPEG, BMP, SVG or
        PNG image.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Refresh</uicontrol> - Refreshes the schema diagram according to the changes in
        your code. They represent changes in your imported documents or changes that are not
        reflected automatically in the compiled schema).</li>
    </ul>
    <p>If the schema is not valid, you see only an error message in the <uicontrol>Logical Model
        View</uicontrol> instead of the diagram.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
