<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="relocate-working-copy">
  <title>Relocate a Working Copy</title><prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>SVN Client<indexterm>Branches/Tags<indexterm>Relocate working
            copy</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>Sometimes the base URL of the repository is changed after a working copy is checked out from
      that URL. For example, if the repository itself is moved to a different server. In such cases,
      you do not have to check out a working copy from the new repository location. It is easier to
      change the base URL of the root folder of the working copy to <xref
        href="entering-local-paths-urls.dita#entering-local-paths-urls/url-section">the new URL of
        the repository</xref>.<note><i>Peg revisions</i> have no effect for this operation.
      </note></p>
    <p>This <uicontrol>Relocate</uicontrol> action is available in the <uicontrol>Tools</uicontrol>
      menu when selecting the root item of the working copy.</p>
    <note><i>External</i> items that are defined using absolute URLs and that point to the
      same repository as the working copy are not affected by the <uicontrol>Relocate</uicontrol>
      action (the URL is not updated). To relocate these items, change the value of the
        <codeph>svn:externals</codeph> property for each external item (set on their parent
      directories). For example, if an external item is defined as <codeph>externalDir
        http://host/path/to/repo/to/dir</codeph> and the repository was moved to another server
        (<codeph>host2</codeph>) and its protocol changed to <codeph>https</codeph>, then the value
      of the property needs to be updated to <codeph>externalDir
        https://host2/path/to/repo/to/dir</codeph>.</note>
    <note type="tip">If you edit external items using the method described in the previous note, on
      the next update the system will try to fetch the external items again. To avoid this, you can
      invoke the <uicontrol>Relocate</uicontrol> action on each of these external items.</note>
  </body>
</topic>