<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="resolve-xml-schema-location-through-xml-catalogs">
  <title>Resolve Schemas Through XML Catalogs </title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Resolve schema through xml catalog mappings</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> resolves the location of a schema in the following order:<ul>
      <li>First, it attempts to resolve the schema location as a URI (<codeph>uri</codeph>,
            <codeph>uriSuffix</codeph>, <codeph>rerwriteURI</codeph> mappings from the XML catalog).
          If this succeeds, the process end here.</li>
        <li>If the <xref
            href="preferences-xml-catalog.dita#preferences-xml-catalog/xml_catalog_resolve_schema"
              ><uicontrol>Resolve schema locations also through system mappings</uicontrol>
            option</xref> is selected, it attempts to resolve the schema location as a systemID
            (<term>system</term>, <codeph>systemSuffix</codeph>, <codeph>rewriteSuffix</codeph>,
            <codeph>rerwriteSystem</codeph> from the XML catalog). If this succeeds, the process
          ends here.</li>
        <li>If the <xref
            href="preferences-xml-catalog.dita#preferences-xml-catalog/xml_catalog_process_ns"
              ><uicontrol>Process namespace through URI mappings for XML Schema</uicontrol>
            option</xref> is selected, it attempts to resolve the location by processing the schema
          namespace as a URI (<codeph>uri</codeph>, <codeph>uriSuffix</codeph>,
            <codeph>rewriteURI</codeph> from the XML catalog). The namespace is taken into account
          only when the schema specified in the <i>schemaLocation</i> attribute was not resolved
          successfully. If this succeeds, the process ends here.</li>
        <li>If none of these succeeds, the actual schema location is used.</li>
      </ul></p>
  </body>
</topic>
