<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="running-docbook-transformation-webhelp-plugin">
  <title>Running an External DocBook Transformation Using the WebHelp Plugin</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>WebHelp Plugin<indexterm>DocBook<indexterm>Running external
              transformation</indexterm></indexterm>
        </indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>To run a DocBook to WebHelp (<xref href="docbook-webhelp-plugin.dita#docbook-webhelp-plugin"
          ><uicontrol>webhelp</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>webhelp-feedback</uicontrol>,
          <uicontrol>webhelp-mobile</uicontrol></xref>) transformation using the <ph
        keyref="webhelp"/> plugin, use:<ul>
        <li><b>docbook.bat</b> script file for Windows based systems.</li>
        <li><b>docbook.sh</b> script file for Unix/Linux based systems.<note>You can call these
            files in an automated process or from the command line. </note></li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>The <filepath>docbook.bat</filepath> and the <filepath>docbook.sh</filepath> files are
      located in the home directory of the <ph keyref="webhelp"/> Plugin. Before using them to
      generate an WebHelp system, customize them to match the paths to the JVM, DocBook XSL
      distribution and Saxon engine, and also to set the transformation type. To do this, open a
      script file and edit the following variables:<ul>
        <li><b>JVM_INSTALL_DIR</b> - Specifies the path to the Java Virtual Machine installation
          directory on your disk.</li>
        <li><b>ANT_INSTALL_DIR</b> - Specifies the path to the installation directory of Ant.</li>
        <li><b>SAXON_6_DIR</b> - Specifies the path to the installation directory of Saxon
          6.5.5.</li>
        <li><b>SAXON_9_DIR</b> - Specifies the path to the installation directory of Saxon
          9.1.0.8.</li>
        <li><b>DOCBOOK_XSL_DIR</b> - Specifies the path to the installation directory of the DocBook
          XSL distribution.</li>
        <li><b>TRANSTYPE</b> - Specifies the type of the transformation you want to apply. You can
          set it to <b>webhelp</b>, <b>webhelp-feedback</b> and <b>webhelp-mobile</b>.</li>
        <li><b>INPUT_DIR</b> - Specifies the path to the input directory, containing the input XML
          file.</li>
        <li><b>XML_INPUT_FILE</b> - Specifies the name of the input XML file.</li>
        <li><b>OUTPUT_DIR</b> - Specifies the path to the output directory where the transformation
          output is generated.</li>
        <li><b>DOCBOOK_XSL_DIR_URL</b> - Specifies the path to the directory of the DocBook XSL
          distribution in URL format.</li>
      </ul></p>
  </body>
</topic>
