<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="running-xpath-expressions">
  <title>Working with XPath Expressions</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>XPath Expressions</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_ewv_cgk_54b">XPath is a language for addressing specific parts of a document. XPath models an XML document
      as a tree of nodes. An XPath expression is a mechanism for navigating through and selecting
      nodes from the document. An XPath expression is, in a way, analogous to an SQL query used to
      select records from a database.<note id="note_fwv_cgk_54b">If an XPath expression is run over a JSON document, it is
        converted to XML and the XPath is executed over the converted XML document.</note></p>
    <p id="p_gwv_cgk_54b">There are various types of nodes, including element nodes, attribute nodes, and text nodes.
      XPath defines a way to compute a string-value for each type of node.</p>
    <p id="p_hwv_cgk_54b">XPath defines a library of standard functions for working with strings, numbers and boolean
      expressions.</p>
    <p id="p_iwv_cgk_54b"><b><u>Examples:</u></b></p>
    <p id="p_jwv_cgk_54b">
      <ul id="ul_kwv_cgk_54b">
        <li id="li_lwv_cgk_54b"><b>child::*</b> - Selects all children of the root node.</li>
        <li id="li_mwv_cgk_54b"><b>.//name</b> - Selects all <xmlelement>name</xmlelement> elements
          and descendants of the current node.</li>
        <li id="li_nwv_cgk_54b"><b>/catalog/cd[price&gt;10.80]</b> - Selects all the
            <xmlelement>cd</xmlelement> elements that have a <xmlelement>price</xmlelement> element
          with a value larger than 10.80.</li>
        <li id="li_bpv_4lp_4pb"><b>//prolog</b> - Finds all <xmlelement>prolog</xmlelement>
          elements.</li>
        <li id="li_ljy_4lp_4pb"><b>//prolog[@platform='mac']</b> - Finds all
            <xmlelement>prolog</xmlelement> elements that have the <xmlatt>platform</xmlatt>
          attribute value set to <b>mac</b>.</li>
        <li id="li_gsz_4lp_4pb"><b>//child::prolog</b> - Selects all <xmlatt>prolog</xmlatt>
          elements and the child content.</li>
        <li id="li_sz5_gtk_qpb"><b>/*[count(//accountNumber) > 5]</b> - Searches for instances where
          more than 5 <xmlelement>accountNumber</xmlelement> elements are found.</li>
        <li id="li_cyn_wtk_qpb"
            ><b>collection('file:/C:/path/to/folder/?select=*.xml')/*[not(//prolog)]</b> - Finds a
          list of all XML files that do not contain any <xmlelement>prolog</xmlelement>
          elements.</li>
      </ul>
    </p>
    <p id="p_owv_cgk_54b">To find out more about XPath, see <xref href="http://www.w3.org/TR/xpath" scope="external"
        format="html"/>.</p>
  </body>
  <related-links product="author developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse">
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="content-completion-xpath-expressions.dita#content-completion-xpath-expressions"
        product="developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse"/>
      <link href="find-and-replace-text-in-files.dita#find-and-replace-text-in-files"
        product="author developer editor"/>
      <link href="find-replace-dialog.dita#find-replace-dialog" product="author developer editor"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
