<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="s1000d-doc-type">
  <title>S1000D Document Type (Framework)</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Supported frameworks<indexterm>S1000D</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>S1000D document type</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><b>S1000D</b> is an international specification for the procurement and production of
      technical publications (mainly used in aerospace and aviation industries). It is an XML-based
      specification for preparing, managing, and using equipment maintenance and operations
      information.</p>
    <p>S1000D is articulated on three main notions:<ul id="ul_awq_pzn_5jb">
        <li>
          <p><b>Data Module</b> - It is an XML file which defines a standalone information unit.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p><b>Data Module Structure</b> - It defines how a Data Module is divided:<ul
              id="ul_dck_wzn_5jb">
              <li>The Identification and Status part: It identifies the Data Module withing the CSDB
                structure.</li>
              <li>The Content part: It is the detailed information of the Data Module.</li>
            </ul></p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p><b>Common Source DataBase (CSDB) </b> - It defines how the Data Modules are arranged
            inside a publication.</p>
        </li>
      </ul></p>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> does not have a default S1000D support but a company called AMPLEXOR
      has developed a framework which can be installed in Oxygen and add support for S1000D
      documents.</p>
    <p>Here are the step to install the framework on <ph keyref="product"/>:<ol id="ol_rry_3xs_5jb">
        <li>Download or clone the framework on <xref
            href="https://github.com/Amplexor/oxygen-asd-s1000d" format="html" scope="external"
            >GitHub</xref> and install it by <xref href="framework-customization-extending.dita"
          />.</li>
        <li>
          <p>Download the S1000D specifications package containing samples and schemas at <xref
              href="http://s1000d.org/Downloads/Pages/S1000DDownloads.aspx" format="html"
              scope="external">S1000D Downloads</xref>.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p> Copy the XML Schemas files from <filepath>[ZIP]\XML Schema
              Package\xml_schema_flat</filepath> into the corresponding version
              <filepath>xml_schema_flat</filepath> folder.</p>
        </li>
      </ol></p>
    <note>To display the CGM images, you have to install the <xref href="cgm-addon.dita"/>.</note>
    <p>For further informations about S1000D specifications, you can ask some of our partners:<ul
        id="ul_n1g_zys_5jb">
        <li><xref href="https://www.amplexor.com/" format="html" scope="external"
          >AMPLEXOR</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="http://www.daksys.com/oxygen/" format="html" scope="external">Dakota
            Systems</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="https://adam.4dconcept.fr/" format="html" scope="external">4D
          Concept</xref>, which also sells a S1000D commercial solution.</li>
      </ul></p>
  </body>
</topic>
