<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="schematron-preferences-page">
  <title>Schematron Preferences</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Preferences<indexterm>Schematron parser</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_yxp_bgk_54b">To configure options regarding Schematron, <ph
        conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>XML</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>XML Parser</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Schematron</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>.</p>
    <p id="p_zxp_bgk_54b">The following options are available in this preferences page:<dl id="dl_ayp_bgk_54b">
        <dlentry id="dlentry_byp_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>ISO Schematron</uicontrol> Section</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_cyp_bgk_54b">
              <dl id="dl_dyp_bgk_54b">
                <dlentry id="dlentry_eyp_bgk_54b">
                  <dt><uicontrol>Optimize (visit-no-attributes)</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>If your ISO Schematron assertion tests do not contain the attributes axis, you
                    should select this option for faster ISO Schematron validation.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_fyp_bgk_54b">
                  <dt><uicontrol>Allow foreign elements (allow-foreign)</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Enables support for <codeph>allow-foreign</codeph> on ISO Schematron. This
                    option is used to pass non-Schematron elements to the generated stylesheet.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_gyp_bgk_54b">
                  <dt><uicontrol>Use associated XML Schema to expand default attribute
                      values</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>When selected (default value), if the validated XML document has an XML Schema
                    associated that contains default values for attributes defined in the XML
                    content, the Schematron will be able to match on those default attributes.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_hyp_bgk_54b">
                  <dt><uicontrol>Use Saxon EE (schema aware) for xslt2/xslt3 query language
                      binding</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>When selected, Saxon EE is used for
                      <codeph>xslt2</codeph>/<codeph>xslt3</codeph> query binding. If this option is
                    not selected, Saxon PE is used.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_iyp_bgk_54b">
                  <dt><uicontrol>Enable Schematron Quick Fixes (SQF) support</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Allows you to enable or disable the support for <xref
                      keyref="glossentry_quick-fix"><term>Quick Fixes</term></xref> in Schematron
                    files. This option is selected by default.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_at5_pnh_bhc">
                  <dt><uicontrol>Restrict "Apply All" to quick fixes marked as
                      "sqf:default-fix"</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Allows you to restrict the <xref keyref="glossentry_quick-fix"
                        ><term>Schematron Quick Fixes</term></xref> to be applied in bulk only for
                    those that have the <codeph>sqf:default-fix</codeph> attribute explicitly
                      set.<note id="note_cr4_b4h_bhc">If you want to bulk apply quick fixes for
                      documents that are not validated against Schematron, this option should not be
                      selected.</note></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="embedded-rules-query-language">
                  <dt><uicontrol>Embedded rules query language binding</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>You can control the query language binding used by the ISO Schematron embedded
                    rules. You can choose between: <uicontrol>xslt1</uicontrol>,
                      <uicontrol>xslt2</uicontrol>, or <uicontrol>xslt3</uicontrol>.<note id="note_jyp_bgk_54b">To control
                      the query language binding for standalone ISO Schematron, you need to set the
                      query language to be used with a <xmlatt>queryBinding</xmlatt> attribute on
                      the schema root element.</note></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="message-language">
                  <dt><uicontrol>Message language</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>This option allows you to specify the language to be used in Schematron
                    validation messages. You can choose between the following:<ul id="ul_kyp_bgk_54b">
                      <li id="li_lyp_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Use the language defined in the application</uicontrol> - The
                        language that is specified in <xref keyref="options_global/language"
                          product="author developer editor">the <uicontrol>Global
                            Preferences</uicontrol> page</xref><xref
                          href="localizeGUI-eclipse-plugin.dita#localizeGUI-eclipse-plugin"
                          product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">the
                          application</xref> will be used and only the validation messages that
                        match that language will be presented. You can use the <uicontrol>Change
                          application language</uicontrol> link to navigate to the preferences page
                        where you can specify the language to be used in the application.</li>
                      <li id="li_myp_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Use the "xml:lang" attribute set on the Schematron
                          root</uicontrol> - The language specified in the <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt>
                        attribute from the Schematron root will be used and only the validation
                        message that match that language will be presented.</li>
                      <li id="li_nyp_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Ignore the language and show all message</uicontrol> - All
                        messages are displayed in whatever language is defined within the Schematron
                        schema.</li>
                      <li id="li_oyp_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>Custom</uicontrol> - Use this option to specify a custom
                        language to be used and only the messages that match the specified language
                        will be presented.</li>
                    </ul><note id="note_pyp_bgk_54b">In all cases, if the selected language is not available for a
                      validation error or warning, all messages will be displayed in whatever
                      language is defined within the Schematron schema.</note></dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_qyp_bgk_54b">
          <dt><uicontrol>Schematron 1.5</uicontrol> Section</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_ryp_bgk_54b">
              <dl id="dl_syp_bgk_54b">
                <dlentry id="xpath-version">
                  <dt><uicontrol>XPath Version</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Allows you to select the version of XPath for the expressions that are allowed
                    in Schematron assertion tests. You can choose between:
                      <uicontrol>1.0</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>2.0</uicontrol>, or
                      <uicontrol>3.0</uicontrol>. This option is applied in both standalone
                    Schematron 1.5 schemas and embedded Schematron 1.5 rules.</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_typ_bgk_54b">
          <dt>Security</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_uyp_bgk_54b">
              <dl id="dl_ypt_qhx_q4b">
                <dlentry id="dlentry_vyp_bgk_54b">
                  <dt><uicontrol>Disable Schematron security checks</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p id="p_wyp_bgk_54b">For security reasons, several security checks are performed on Schematron
                      files that are not located inside a <xref keyref="glossentry_framework"
                          ><term>framework</term></xref> or <xref keyref="glossentry_plugin"
                          ><term>plugin</term></xref>. Select this option if your Schematron files
                      are failing because of these security checks and you are unable to move them
                      to a location recognized as safe (a framework or a plugin).</p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </body>
</topic>
