<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="scripting-compare-directories">
  <title>Compare Directories</title>
  <body>
    <note conkeyref="reusables-scripting/note-scripting-license" id="note_zmx_dgk_54b"/>
    <p id="p_anx_dgk_54b">The <term>Compare Directories</term> script
        (<codeph>compareDirs.sh</codeph>) can be used to compare two directories and get the
      comparison results in various formats.</p>
    <section id="section_gbd_tzb_vmb">
      <title>Arguments for the Compare Directories Script</title>
      <p id="p_tnx_dgk_54b">
        <codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_unx_dgk_54b">sh scripts/compareDirs.sh firstDirPath secondDirPath [[baseDirPath] [-if includeFilesFilter] [-ia includeArchives] [-ef excludeFilesFilter] [-ed excludeSubdirsFilter] [-cm comparisonMode] [-alg comparisonAlg] [-als algStrength] [-iws ignoreWS] [-ipi ignorePI] [-icm ignoreComments] [-idt ignoreDocType] [-itn ignoreText] [-ins ignoreNS] [-ind ignoreNSDecl] [-inp ignorePrefixes] [-iao ignoreAttrOrder] [-iee ignoreExpStateForEmptyElems] [-out outputFormat]] [-help | --help | -h | --h]</codeblock>
      </p>
      <p id="p_vnx_dgk_54b">
        <dl id="dl_wnx_dgk_54b">
          <dlentry id="dlentry_xnx_dgk_54b">
            <dt>firstDirPath</dt>
            <dd>Mandatory argument that specifies the first directory path (it can also be provided
              as a URL using <codeph>'file://'</codeph> protocol).</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_l2b_gpl_54b">
            <dt>secondDirPath</dt>
            <dd>Mandatory argument that specifies the second directory path (it can also be provided
              as a URL using <codeph>'file://'</codeph> protocol).</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_x2j_5ck_dpb">
            <dt>baseDirPath</dt>
            <dd>Optional argument that specifies the path of the base directory that the other two
              directories will be compared against in a 3-way comparison (it can also be provided as
              a URL). If present, it must appear immediately after the first two mandatory
              arguments.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_ynx_dgk_54b">
            <dt>-if includeFilesFilter</dt>
            <dd>Use this argument to only include files that match the specified pattern in the
              comparison (e.g. <filepath>.xml</filepath>, <filepath>.json</filepath>). Default value
              = <term>*</term>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_znx_dgk_54b">
            <dt>-ia includeArchives</dt>
            <dd>If set to <term>true</term>, files from archives are included in the comparison.
              Default value = <term>false</term>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_rz1_5pl_54b">
            <dt>-ef excludeFilesFilter</dt>
            <dd>Use this argument to exclude files that match the specified pattern from the
              comparison (e.g. <filepath>*.jpg</filepath>).</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_ls4_zpl_54b">
            <dt>-ed excludeSubdirsFilter</dt>
            <dd>Use this argument to exclude sub-directories that match the specified pattern from
              the comparison (e.g. <filepath>.svn</filepath>, <filepath>_svn</filepath>,
                <filepath>.git</filepath>).</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_tzg_gql_54b">
            <dt>-cm comparisonMode</dt>
            <dd>Specifies the comparison mode. There are three modes available:
              <term>content</term>, <term>binary</term>, and <term>timestamp</term>. Default value =
                <term>content</term>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_eyc_kql_54b">
            <dt>-alg comparisonAlg</dt>
            <dd>Specifies the algorithm to be used for the comparison. Possible values:
                <term>auto</term>, <term>chars</term>, <term>words</term>, <term>lines</term>,
                <term>syntax_aware</term>, <term>xml_fast</term>, and <term>xml_accurate</term>.
              Default value = <term>auto</term>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_oj4_sql_54b">
            <dt>-als algStrength</dt>
            <dd>Specifies the strength of the algorithm to be used for the comparison. Possible
              values: <term>low</term>, <term>medium</term>, <term>high</term>, and
                <term>very_high</term>. Default value = <term>medium</term>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_gpn_zql_54b">
            <dt>-iws ignoreWS</dt>
            <dd>If set to <term>true</term>, whitespaces are ignored if differences consist only of
              whitespaces. Default value = <term>false</term>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_xjp_2rl_54b">
            <dt>-ipi ignorePI (only for the XML-aware algorithms)</dt>
            <dd>If set to <term>true</term>, processing instructions are ignored in the comparison.
              Default value = <term>false</term>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_k3v_lrl_54b">
            <dt>-icm ignoreComments (only for the XML-aware algorithms)</dt>
            <dd>If set to <term>true</term>, comments are ignored in the comparison. Default value =
                <term>false</term>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_rly_4rl_54b">
            <dt>-idt ignoreDocType (only for the XML-aware algorithms)</dt>
            <dd>If set to <term>true</term>, DOCTYPE sections are ignored in the comparison. Default
              value = <term>false</term>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_tsr_qrl_54b">
            <dt>-itn ignoreText (only for the XML-aware algorithms)</dt>
            <dd>If set to <term>true</term>, text content is ignored in the comparison. Default
              value = <term>false</term>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_fyv_srl_54b">
            <dt>-ins ignoreNS (only for the XML-aware algorithms)</dt>
            <dd>If set to <term>true</term>, namespaces are ignored in the comparison. Default value
              = <term>false</term>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_zlq_wrl_54b">
            <dt>-ind ignoreNSDecl (only for the XML-aware algorithms)</dt>
            <dd>If set to <term>true</term>, namespace declarations are ignored in the comparison.
              Default value = <term>false</term>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_owd_zrl_54b">
            <dt>-inp ignorePrefixes (only for the XML-aware algorithms)</dt>
            <dd>If set to <term>true</term>, prefixes are ignored in the comparison. Default value =
                <term>false</term>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_i2g_bsl_54b">
            <dt>-iao ignoreAttrOrder (only for the XML-aware algorithms)</dt>
            <dd>If set to <term>true</term>, the order of attributes is ignored in the comparison.
              Default value = <term>false</term>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_upv_dsl_54b">
            <dt>-iee ignoreExpStateForEmptyElems (only for the XML-aware algorithms)</dt>
            <dd>If set to <term>true</term>, the expansion state for empty elements is ignored in
              the comparison. Default value = <term>false</term>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_mqp_bdj_tpb">
            <dt>-merge mergeOperation</dt>
            <dd>If set to <term>true</term>, a merge operation is invoked after the comparison.
              Default value = <term>false</term>.<note id="note_pwx_ldj_tpb" type="other"
                othertype="Notes">
                <ul id="ul_nsc_ndj_tpb">
                  <li id="li_osc_ndj_tpb">This argument is considered only for 3-way comparisons
                    (i.e. only if the <codeph>baseDirPath</codeph> argument is provided).</li>
                  <li id="li_jlc_5dj_tpb">The merge operation is similar to the same process in any
                    versioning system. Following the comparison between the first and second
                    directories (relative to the base folder), all the differences of the type
                      <b>incoming</b> are considered and the contents of the first directory are
                    updated accordingly.</li>
                  <li id="li_mfs_c2j_tpb">Conflicting changes are not addressed.</li>
                  <li id="li_lqg_p2j_tpb">After the comparison, a report is created that provides
                    details about the changes that were made.</li>
                </ul>
              </note></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_sdw_sz3_tpb">
            <dt>-mergeout outputDirPathForMerge</dt>
            <dd>Invokes a merge operation after the comparison and also allows you to specify the
              output directory path for the merge operation. For example, it allows you to specify a
              specific existing or new directory where the results of the merge operation is saved,
              other than the first directory path for the comparison (which is what happens when
              using only the <codeph>-merge</codeph> argument). The path of the directory can also
              be provided as a URL using <codeph>file://</codeph> protocol. This argument and the
                <codeph>-merge</codeph> argument are not dependent on each other.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_a4x_dgk_54b">
            <dt>-out outputFormat</dt>
            <dd>Specifies the format of the output files. Possible values:
              <term>yaml/grouped</term>, <term>yaml/raw</term>, <term>json/grouped</term>,
                <term>json/raw</term>, <term>xml/grouped</term>, <term>xml/raw</term>,
                <term>html</term>, or <term>htm</term>. Default value =
                <term>yaml/grouped</term>.<note id="note_jdt_qsl_54b" type="other" othertype="Notes">
                <ul id="ul_ps3_plj_lpb">
                  <li id="li_qs3_plj_lpb">If you choose to save/redirect the console output to a
                    file, this argument establishes the type of the output file and its content is
                    formatted accordingly. If you skip specifying the "<term>/grouped</term>" or the
                      "<term>/raw</term>" qualifiers, "<term>/grouped</term>" is the one
                    considered.</li>
                  <li id="li_dr2_qlj_lpb">If you choose the <term>html</term> or <term>htm</term>
                    output format, it is recommended that you also choose to redirect the console to
                    the specified HTML file to view the comparison result in your preferred
                    browser.</li>
                  <li id="li_pnz_kfj_tpb">The <term>html</term> value, as well as the
                      <term>grouped</term> and <term>raw</term> qualifiers, are not considered if
                    the <codeph>-merge</codeph> argument is present.</li>
                </ul>
              </note></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_frs_ty3_tpb">
            <dt>-outfile outputFile</dt>
            <dd>Specifies the path for an output file to save the comparison results, instead of
              presenting them in the console. The content of the output file is formatted according
              to the <codeph>-out</codeph> argument. The output file path can also be provided as a
              URL using <codeph>file://</codeph> protocol.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_c4x_dgk_54b">
            <dt>-help | --help | -h | --h</dt>
            <dd>Displays help text.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
      <note id="note_p2r_k4l_54b" type="other" othertype="Notes">
        <p id="p_o4l_m4l_54b">
          <ul id="ul_jkd_m4l_54b">
            <li id="li_kkd_m4l_54b">For boolean arguments, it is not necessary to provide the "true"
              value. Their presence in the argument list is equivalent to setting their value to
              "true" (and their absence from the argument list is equivalent to setting their value
              to "false"). However, constructs of the form <codeph>bool_option true|false</codeph>
              are accepted and interpreted accordingly.</li>
            <li id="li_rsr_z4l_54b">File markers used in reports are as follows: M = modified, O1 =
              only found in 1st directory, O2 = only found in 2nd directory.</li>
          </ul>
        </p>
      </note>
    </section>
    <section id="section_pnz_pnl_54b">
      <title>Examples of Compare Directories Script</title>
      <p id="p_qnz_pnl_54b">
        <ul id="ul_t4f_rnl_54b">
          <li id="li_u4f_rnl_54b">
            <codeblock outputclass="language-bourne">sh scripts/compareDirs.sh dir1 dir2 -ia true -ef *.jpg</codeblock>
            <p id="p_rzc_tnl_54b">Includes archives, but excludes JPEGs from the comparison.</p>
          </li>
          <li id="li_vwm_xnl_54b">
            <codeblock outputclass="language-bourne">sh scripts/compareDirs.sh dir1 dir2 -if *.xml -ia -iao -icm</codeblock>
            <p id="p_gy5_ynl_54b">Only XML files (even from archives) are included in the
              comparison, ignoring the comments and attribute order.</p>
          </li>
          <li id="li_mbg_b4l_54b">
            <codeblock outputclass="language-bourne">sh scripts/compareDirs.sh dir1 dir2 -out json/raw > results.json</codeblock>
            <p id="p_dfm_c4l_54b">Redirects the console output to a JSON file named
                "<term>results.json</term>", with "<term>raw</term>" mode formatting.</p>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="directories-comparison.dita" product="author developer editor"/>
  </related-links>
</topic>
