<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="scripting_oxygen_batch_converter">
  <title>Batch Converter</title>
  <body>
    <note conkeyref="reusables-scripting/note-scripting-license" id="note_zmx_dgk_54b"/>
    <p id="p_anx_dgk_54b">The <uicontrol>Batch Converter</uicontrol> script
        (<codeph>batchConverter.sh</codeph>) helps you to convert between the following formats: <ul
        id="ul_r4d_4kx_2nb">
        <li id="li_bnx_dgk_54b">HTML to XHTML </li>
        <li id="li_cnx_dgk_54b">HTML to DITA </li>
        <li id="li_dnx_dgk_54b">HTML to DocBook4 / DocBook5</li>
        <li id="li_enx_dgk_54b">Markdown to XHTML </li>
        <li id="li_fnx_dgk_54b">Markdown to DITA</li>
        <li id="li_gnx_dgk_54b">Markdown to DocBook4 / DocBook5</li>
        <li id="li_hnx_dgk_54b">Word to XHTML</li>
        <li id="li_inx_dgk_54b">Word to DITA</li>
        <li id="li_jnx_dgk_54b">Word to DocBook4 / DocBook5</li>
        <li id="li_knx_dgk_54b">Excel to DITA</li>
        <li>Confluence to DITA</li>
        <li>DocBook to DITA</li>
        <li>OpenAPI to DITA</li>
        <li id="li_lnx_dgk_54b">JSON to XML </li>
        <li id="li_mnx_dgk_54b">JSON to YAML </li>
        <li id="li_nnx_dgk_54b">XML to JSON</li>
        <li id="li_onx_dgk_54b">YAML to JSON</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p id="p_pnx_dgk_54b">This script requires the <uicontrol>Oxygen Batch Documents
        Converter</uicontrol> add-on to be installed in the <xref
        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/xml_editor/download_oxygenxml_editor.html?os=Other"
        format="html" scope="external">all platforms distribution</xref> of an <b>Enterprise</b>
      edition of <ph keyref="product"/>.</p>
    <p id="p_rfn_hkd_qqb">To install the add-on, follow these instructions:<ol id="ol_nn2_2vb_vmb">
        <li id="li_qnx_dgk_54b">Go on the <uicontrol>Oxygen Batch Documents Converter</uicontrol>
          plugin <uicontrol>Releases</uicontrol> page and download the latest <xref
            href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/oxygen-resources-converter/releases/latest"
            format="html" scope="external">oxygen-batch-converter-{version}-plugin.jar</xref>
          package.</li>
        <li id="li_rnx_dgk_54b">Unzip it inside
            <filepath>{oxygenInstallDir}/plugins</filepath>.<note id="note_snx_dgk_54b">Do not
            create any intermediate folders. Afterwards, the file system should look like this:
              <filepath>{oxygenInstallDir}/plugins/oxygen-batch-converter-{version}/plugin.xml</filepath></note></li>
      </ol></p>
    <section id="section_gbd_tzb_vmb">
      <title>Arguments for the Batch Converter Script</title>
      <p id="p_tnx_dgk_54b">
        <codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_unx_dgk_54b">sh scripts/batchConverter.sh -i inputFiles -if inputFormat -o outputDirectory 
-of outputFormat [-ss (true|false)] [-csd (true|false)] [-cs converterSettingsFile]</codeblock>
      </p>
      <p id="p_vnx_dgk_54b">
        <dl id="dl_wnx_dgk_54b">
          <dlentry id="dlentry_xnx_dgk_54b">
            <dt>-i inputFiles</dt>
            <dd>A list of space-separated input files or directories in file syntax form.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_ynx_dgk_54b">
            <dt>-if inputFormat</dt>
            <dd>The format of the input files. The possible values are: <b>html</b>,
              <b>markdown</b>, <b>word</b>, <b>confluence</b>, <b>docbook</b>, <b>excel</b>,
                <b>openapi</b>, <b>json</b>, <b>yaml</b>, or <b>xml</b>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_znx_dgk_54b">
            <dt>-o outputDirectory</dt>
            <dd>The output directory in file syntax form.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_a4x_dgk_54b">
            <dt>-of outputFormat</dt>
            <dd>The format of the output files. The possible values are: <b>xhtml</b>, <b>dita</b>,
                <b>docbook4</b>, <b>docbook5</b>, <b>json</b>, <b>yaml</b>, or <b>xml</b>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_b4x_dgk_54b">
            <dt>-ss (true|false) [only for <b>Word to DITA</b>, <b>HTML to DITA</b>, <b>Markdown to
                DITA</b>, <b>DocBook to DITA</b>, and <b>OpenAPI to DITA</b> conversions]</dt>
            <dd>Splits sections marked by titles or headings to separate files and create a DITA
              map. The possible values are <b>true</b> or <b>false</b> (default).</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_c4x_dgk_54b">
            <dt>-csd (true|false)  [only for <b>Markdown to DITA</b> conversions]</dt>
            <dd>Creates short description elements from the first paragraph before the headings.
              Possible values are <b>true</b> or <b>false</b> (default).</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>-cs converterSettingsFile</dt>
            <dd>A file that contains the Batch Documents Converter add-on preferences settings. It
              can be an xpr file that contains project options or an xml file that contains global
              options. If not specified, the operation uses the application's default settings.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_u3z_x4r_lsb">
      <title>Confluence to DITA</title>
      <p>The <uicontrol>Confluence to DITA</uicontrol> conversion processes the HTML content
        generated by the Confluence export process. For exporting, login to your Confluence account
        and navigate to the specific space that you want to export. Go to <menucascade>
          <uicontrol>Space Settings</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Export space</uicontrol>
        </menucascade> and choose to export it as HTML. The <filepath>index.html</filepath> file
        resulting from this process has to be provided in the <uicontrol>inputFiles</uicontrol>
        argument.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
