<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="scripting-compare-files">
  <title>Compare Files</title>
  <body>
    <note conkeyref="reusables-scripting/note-scripting-license" id="note_zmx_dgk_54b"/>
    <p id="p_anx_dgk_54b">The <uicontrol>Compare Files</uicontrol> script
        (<codeph>compareFiles.sh</codeph>) can be used to compare two files and get the comparison
      results in various formats.</p>
    <section id="section_gbd_tzb_vmb">
      <title>Arguments for the Compare Files Script</title>
      <p id="p_tnx_dgk_54b">
        <codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_unx_dgk_54b">sh scripts/compareFiles.sh firstFilePath secondFilePath [[-alg comparisonAlg] [-als algStrength] [-iws ignoreWS] [-ipi ignorePI] [-icm ignoreComments] [-icd ignoreCDATA] [-idt ignoreDocType] [-itn ignoreText] [-ins ignoreNS] [-ind ignoreNSDecl] [-inp ignorePrefixes] [-iao ignoreAttrOrder] [-iee ignoreExpStateForEmptyElems] [-enx XPathExprToExcludeNodes] [-out outputFormat]] [-help | --help | -h | --h]</codeblock>
      </p>
      <p id="p_vnx_dgk_54b">
        <dl id="dl_wnx_dgk_54b">
          <dlentry id="dlentry_xnx_dgk_54b">
            <dt>firstFilePath</dt>
            <dd>Mandatory argument that specifies the first file path (it can also be provided as a
              URL).</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_l2b_gpl_54b">
            <dt>secondFilePath</dt>
            <dd>Mandatory argument that specifies the second file path (it can also be provided as a
              URL).</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_eyc_kql_54b">
            <dt>-alg comparisonAlg</dt>
            <dd>Specifies the algorithm to be used for the comparison. Possible values: <b>auto</b>,
                <b>chars</b>, <b>words</b>, <b>lines</b>, <b>syntax_aware</b>, <b>xml_fast</b>, and
                <b>xml_accurate</b>. Default value = <b>auto</b>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_oj4_sql_54b">
            <dt>-als algStrength</dt>
            <dd>Specifies the strength of the algorithm to be used for the comparison. Possible
              values: <b>low</b>, <b>medium</b>, <b>high</b>, and <b>very_high</b>. Default value =
                <b>medium</b>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_gpn_zql_54b">
            <dt>-iws ignoreWS</dt>
            <dd>If set to <b>true</b>, whitespaces are ignored if differences consist only of
              whitespaces. Default value = <b>false</b>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_xjp_2rl_54b">
            <dt>-ipi ignorePI (only for the XML-aware algorithms)</dt>
            <dd>If set to <b>true</b>, processing instructions are ignored in the comparison.
              Default value = <b>false</b>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_k3v_lrl_54b">
            <dt>-icm ignoreComments (only for the XML-aware algorithms)</dt>
            <dd>If set to <b>true</b>, comments are ignored in the comparison. Default value =
                <b>false</b>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_rly_4rl_54b">
            <dt>-idt ignoreDocType (only for the XML-aware algorithms)</dt>
            <dd>If set to <b>true</b>, DOCTYPE sections are ignored in the comparison. Default value
              = <b>false</b>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_tsr_qrl_54b">
            <dt>-itn ignoreText (only for the XML-aware algorithms)</dt>
            <dd>If set to <b>true</b>, text content is ignored in the comparison. Default value =
                <b>false</b>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_fyv_srl_54b">
            <dt>-ins ignoreNS (only for the XML-aware algorithms)</dt>
            <dd>If set to <b>true</b>, namespaces are ignored in the comparison. Default value =
                <b>false</b>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_zlq_wrl_54b">
            <dt>-ind ignoreNSDecl (only for the XML-aware algorithms)</dt>
            <dd>If set to <b>true</b>, namespace declarations are ignored in the comparison. Default
              value = <b>false</b>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_owd_zrl_54b">
            <dt>-inp ignorePrefixes (only for the XML-aware algorithms)</dt>
            <dd>If set to <b>true</b>, prefixes are ignored in the comparison. Default value =
                <b>false</b>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_i2g_bsl_54b">
            <dt>-iao ignoreAttrOrder (only for the XML-aware algorithms)</dt>
            <dd>If set to <b>true</b>, the order of attributes is ignored in the comparison. Default
              value = <b>false</b>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_upv_dsl_54b">
            <dt>-iee ignoreExpStateForEmptyElems (only for the XML-aware algorithms)</dt>
            <dd>If set to <b>true</b>, the expansion state for empty elements is ignored in the
              comparison. Default value = <b>false</b>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_jvt_m5l_54b">
            <dt>-enx XPathExprToExcludeNodes</dt>
            <dd>Specifies an XPath expression to exclude certain nodes from the comparison.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_a4x_dgk_54b">
            <dt>-out outputFormat</dt>
            <dd>Specifies the format of the output files. Possible values: <b>yaml</b>, <b>json</b>,
              or <b>xml</b>. Default value = <b>yaml</b>.<note id="note_jdt_qsl_54b">If you choose
                to redirect the console output to a file, this argument establishes the type of the
                output file and its content is formatted accordingly.</note></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_c4x_dgk_54b">
            <dt>-help | --help | -h | --h</dt>
            <dd>Displays help text.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
      <note id="note_p2r_k4l_54b">For boolean arguments, it is not necessary to provide the "true"
        value. Their presence in the argument list is equivalent to setting their value to "true"
        (and their absence from the argument list is equivalent to setting their value to "false").
        However, constructs of the form <codeph>bool_option true|false</codeph> are accepted and
        interpreted accordingly</note>
    </section>
    <section id="section_pnz_pnl_54b">
      <title>Examples of Compare Files Script</title>
      <p id="p_qnz_pnl_54b">
        <ul id="ul_t4f_rnl_54b">
          <li id="li_u4f_rnl_54b">
            <codeblock outputclass="language-bourne">sh scripts/compareFiles file1 file2 -ins -inp -ind -out xml > results.xml</codeblock>
            <p id="p_rzc_tnl_54b">Compares the files (ignoring the namespaces and prefixes) and
              redirects the console output to the <filepath>results.xml</filepath> file
              (XML-formatted).</p>
          </li>
          <li id="li_vwm_xnl_54b">
            <codeblock outputclass="language-bourne">sh scripts/compareFiles.sh file1 file2 -alg lines -iws</codeblock>
            <p id="p_gy5_ynl_54b">Compares the files using the <b>lines</b> algorithm and ignores
              whitespaces.</p>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
