<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="searching-in-reviews">
  <title>Searching in Reviews</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Searching documents<indexterm>Open/Find Resource<indexterm>In
            reviews</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Open/Find Resource<indexterm>In reviews</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>To perform a search in the edits of your resources, open the <xref
        href="open-find-resource-dialog.dita#open-find-resource-dialog"><uicontrol>Open/Find
          Resource</uicontrol> dialog box</xref> (from the <uicontrol>Find</uicontrol> menu or with
      <uicontrol><shortcut conkeyref="reusable-oxygen-shortcuts-list/ctrl_shift_r_shortcut"
      /></uicontrol>) or the <xref href="open-find-resource-view.dita#open-find-resource-view"
          ><uicontrol>Open/Find Resource</uicontrol> view</xref> (by default, located on the left
      side of the editor), select the <uicontrol>In reviews</uicontrol> option, and in the search
      field enter the terms that you want to search for.</p>
    <p>The following options are available:<ul>
        <li><uicontrol>Type</uicontrol> - Specifies whether you want to search for content in
          comments, tracked change insertions/deletions, or highlighted content.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> - Displays all the authors of the edits in your resources.
          The authors are collected when indexing. You can set a specific author for your search or
          search all of them.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Time</uicontrol>- Specifies the time when the edits that you are searching
          through were created.</li>
      </ul>Both the view and the dialog box display the edits that contain the search results and
      their parent topics along with a short description. To hide this description, go to
        <uicontrol>Settings</uicontrol> and deselect the <uicontrol>Show Description</uicontrol>
      option.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
