<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="selection-plugin">
  <title>Selection Plugin Extension</title>
  <shortdesc>This type of <xref keyref="glossentry_plugin"><term>plugin</term></xref> allows you to
    manage selections of text.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Plugin extensions<indexterm>Selection</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Selection plugin extension</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <p id="p_at2_dgk_54b">A <b>selection</b>
      <term>plugin</term> can be applied to both XML and non-XML documents. The <term>plugin</term>
      is started by making a selection in the editor, then selecting the corresponding menu item
      from the <uicontrol>Plugins</uicontrol> submenu in the contextual menu of
        <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode.</p>
    <p id="p_bt2_dgk_54b">This <term>plugin</term> type provides the following API:</p>
    <p id="p_ct2_dgk_54b">
      <dl id="dl_dt2_dgk_54b">
        <dlentry id="dlentry_et2_dgk_54b">
          <dt><b><term>SelectionPluginExtension</term> interface</b></dt>
          <dd>The context containing the selected text is passed to the extension and the processed
            result is going to replace the initial selection. The
              <codeph>process(GeneralPluginContext)</codeph> method must return a
              <codeph>SelectionPluginResult</codeph> object that contains the result of the
            processing. The <i>String</i> value returned by the
              <codeph>SelectionPluginResult</codeph> object can include <xref
              href="editor-variables.dita#editor-variables">editor variables</xref> such as
              <i>${caret}</i> and <i>${selection}</i>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_ft2_dgk_54b">
          <dt><b><term>SelectionPluginContext</term> object</b></dt>
          <dd>Represents the context and provides four methods: <ul id="ul_gt2_dgk_54b">
              <li id="li_ht2_dgk_54b"><codeph>getSelection()</codeph> - Returns a
                  <codeph>String</codeph> that is the current selection of text.</li>
              <li id="li_it2_dgk_54b"><codeph>getFrame()</codeph> - Returns a <codeph>Frame</codeph>
                that is the editing frame.</li>
              <li id="li_jt2_dgk_54b"><codeph>getPluginWorkspace()</codeph> - Returns access to the
                workspace of <ph keyref="product"/>.</li>
              <li id="li_kt2_dgk_54b"><codeph>getDocumentURL()</codeph> - Returns the URL of the
                currently edited document.</li>
            </ul></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
  </conbody>
  <related-links>
      <link href="editor-variables.dita#editor-variables"/>
  </related-links>
</concept>
