<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="set-xml-schema-version">
  <title>Setting the XML Schema Version</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>XML Schemas<indexterm>Set version</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_lhd_cgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> lets you set the version of the XML Schema you are editing either in
      the <uicontrol>XML Schema</uicontrol> preferences page, or through the versioning attributes.
      If you want to use the versioning attributes, set the <i>minVersion</i> and <i>maxVersion</i>
      attributes, from the <i>http://www.w3.org/2007/XMLSchema-versioning</i> namespace, on the
        <i>schema</i> root element.<note id="note_mhd_cgk_54b">The versioning attributes take priority over the XML Schema
        version defined in the preferences page. </note></p>
    <p id="p_nhd_cgk_54b">
      <table frame="all" colsep="1" rowsep="1" id="table_ohd_cgk_54b">
        <title>Using the <i>minVersion</i> and <i>maxVersion</i> Attributes to Set the XML Schema
          Version</title>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*" colsep="1" rowsep="1"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*" rowsep="1" colsep="1"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Versioning Attributes</entry>
              <entry>XML Schema Version</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><b>minVersion</b> = "1.0" <b>maxVersion</b> = "1.1"</entry>
              <entry>1.0</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><b>minVersion</b> = "1.1"</entry>
              <entry>1.1</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><b>minVersion</b> = "1.0" <b>maxVersion</b> = greater than "1.1"</entry>
              <entry>The XML Schema version defined in the <xref
                  href="xml-schema-preferences-page.dita#xml-schema-preferences-page"><uicontrol>XML
                    Schema</uicontrol> preferences page</xref></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Not set in the XML Schema document</entry>
              <entry>The XML Schema version defined in the <xref
                  href="xml-schema-preferences-page.dita#xml-schema-preferences-page"><uicontrol>XML
                    Schema</uicontrol> preferences page</xref></entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </p>
    <p id="p_phd_cgk_54b">To change the XML Schema version of the current document, use the <uicontrol>Change XML
        Schema version</uicontrol> action from the contextual menu. This is available both in the
        <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode, and in the <uicontrol>Design</uicontrol> mode and opens
      the <uicontrol>Change XML Schema version</uicontrol> dialog box. The following options are
      available: <ul id="ul_qhd_cgk_54b">
        <li id="li_rhd_cgk_54b">
          <uicontrol>XML Schema 1.0</uicontrol> - Inserts the <i>minVersion</i> and
            <i>maxVersion</i> attributes on the <i>schema</i> element and gives them the values
          "1.0" and "1.1" respectively. Also, the namespace declaration
            (<i>xmlns:vc=http://www.w3.org/2007/XMLSchema-versioning</i>) is inserted automatically
          if it does not exist. </li>
        <li id="li_shd_cgk_54b">
          <uicontrol>XML Schema 1.1</uicontrol> - Inserts the <i>minVersion</i> attribute on the
            <i>schema</i> element and gives it the value "1.1". Also, removes the <i>maxVersion</i>
          attribute if it exists and adds the versioning namespace
            (<i>xmlns:vc=http://www.w3.org/2007/XMLSchema-versioning</i>) if it is not declared. </li>
        <li id="li_thd_cgk_54b">
          <uicontrol>Default XML Schema version</uicontrol> - Removes the <i>minVersion</i> and
            <i>maxVersion</i> attributes from the <i>schema</i> element. The default schema version,
          defined in the <uicontrol>XML Schema</uicontrol> preferences page, is used. </li>
      </ul><note id="note_uhd_cgk_54b">The <uicontrol>Change XML Schema version</uicontrol> action is also available in
        the informative panel presented at the top of the edited XML Schema. If you close this
        panel, it will no longer appear until you restore <ph keyref="product"/> to its default
        options.</note></p>
    <p id="p_vhd_cgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> automatically uses the version set through the versioning attributes,
      or the default version if the versioning attributes are not declared, when proposing content
      completion elements and validating an XML Schema. Also, the XML instance validation against an
      XML Schema is aware of the versioning attributes defined in the XML Schema.</p>
    <p id="p_whd_cgk_54b">When you generate sample XML files from an XML Schema, <ph keyref="product"/> takes into
      account the <i>minVersion</i> and <i>maxVersion</i> attributes defined in the XML Schema.</p>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="schema-1-1-support.dita#schema-1-1-support"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
