<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="setting-an-indent-of-zero">
  <title>Setting an Indent Size to Zero</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Text editing mode<indexterm>Set indent to zero</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>XML documents<indexterm>Text Mode editing<indexterm>Set indent to
              zero</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Set indent to zero in Text Mode</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> will automatically <xref keyref="edit_format-and-indent-XML">format
        and indent</xref> documents at certain times. This includes indenting the content from the
      margin to reflect its structure. In some cases, you may not want your content indented. To
      avoid your content being indented, you can set an indent size of zero. <note>Changing the
        indent size does not override the rules that <ph keyref="product"/> uses for handling
        whitespace when formatting and indenting XML documents. Therefore, changing the indent size
        will have no effect on elements that require whitespaces to be maintained.</note>There are
      two cases to consider.</p>
    <p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Maintaining zero indent in documents with zero indent</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>If you have existing documents with zero indent and you want <ph keyref="product"/>
              to maintain a zero indent when editing or formatting those documents:</p>
            <ol id="ol_tzt_gdm_jp">
              <li>
                <ph conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/Open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to
                  <xref href="preferences-editor-format.dita#preferences-editor-format"><menucascade>
                    <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol>Format</uicontrol>
                  </menucascade></xref>.</li>
              <li>Select <uicontrol>Detect indent on open</uicontrol>.</li>
              <li>Select <uicontrol>Use zero-indent if detected</uicontrol>. </li>
            </ol>
            <p><ph keyref="product"/> will examine the indent of each document as it is opened and
              if the indent is zero for all lines, or for nearly all lines, a zero indent will be
              used when formatting and indenting the document. Otherwise, <ph keyref="product"/>
              will use the indent closest to what it detects in the document.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Enforcing zero indent for all documents</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>If you want all documents to be formatted with zero indent, regardless of their
              current indenting:</p>
            <ol id="ol_avr_f2m_jp">
              <li>
                <ph conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/Open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to
                  <xref href="preferences-editor-format.dita#preferences-editor-format"><menucascade>
                    <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol>Format</uicontrol>
                  </menucascade></xref>.</li>
              <li>Deselect <uicontrol>Detect indent on open</uicontrol>.</li>
              <li>Set <uicontrol>Indent size</uicontrol> to <codeph>0</codeph>. </li>
            </ol>
            <p>All documents will be formatted and indented with an indent of zero.</p>
            <note type="warning">Setting the indent size to zero can change the meaning of some file
              types, such as Python source files.</note>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
