<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="sharing-possibilities">
  <title>Sharing Application Settings</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Sharing settings</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Sharing project level options</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>There are a variety of ways that you can share the settings in <ph keyref="product"/> with
      other members of your team so that you all use a common set of options. This topic describes
      various possibilities.</p>
    <section id="share_settings_through_a_project_file">
      <title>Share Settings Through a Project File</title>
      <p>Most of the preference pages in <ph keyref="product"/> include a <xref
          keyref="glossentry_project-options"><uicontrol>Project Options</uicontrol></xref> button
        that allows you to pass changes to the settings to the current project file that is opened
        in the <uicontrol>Project</uicontrol> view. That project file can then be shared with other
        users. For instance, if your project file is saved on a version control system (such as SVN,
        CVS, or Source Safe) or in a shared folder, your team will have access to the same option
        configuration that you stored in the project file.</p>
      <p>For more information about sharing projects, see <xref
          href="sharing-projects.dita#sharing-projects"/>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="share_settings_by_exportingimporting_global_optio">
      <title>Share Settings by Exporting/Importing Global Options</title>
      <p><ph keyref="product"/> includes actions in the <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol> menu that
        allow you to export and import the <xref keyref="glossentry_global-options">global
          settings</xref>. The <uicontrol>Export Global Options</uicontrol> action will save the
        global settings as an XML properties file. You can then share those settings with others by
        using the <uicontrol>Import Global Options</uicontrol> action to import that properties file
        on their computer.</p>
      <p>For more information about global options, see <xref
          href="import-export-preferences.dita#import-export-preferences"/>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="share_settings_with_a_custom_options_file_during_">
      <title>Share Settings with a Custom Options File During Installation</title>
      <p>When <ph keyref="product"/> in installed, all the settings are set to default values. You
        can customize the set of default values by creating an XML <term>options file</term> that
        you will use when installing <ph keyref="product"/> on each computer. You can then copy the
        XML options file to the installation directory or specify its path in a startup
        parameter.</p>
      <p>For more information about creating and referencing a custom options file, see <xref
          href="default-options.dita#default-options"/>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="share_settings_by_imposing_fixed_options_with_an_">
      <title>Share Settings by Imposing Fixed Options with an API</title>
      <p>The Maven-based <xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/oxygen_sdk.html" format="html"
          scope="external">Oxygen XML SDK</xref> includes a sample <term>plugin</term> called
          <b>ImposeOptions</b> that imposes a fixed set of options when the application starts. This
        can be achieved by using the
          <apiname>PluginWorkspaceProvider.getPluginWorkspace().setGlobalObjectProperty(key,
          value)</apiname> API method.</p>
      <p>For more information about this API, see <xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/exml/workspace/api/PluginWorkspaceProvider.html#getPluginWorkspace--"
          format="html" scope="external">PluginWorkspaceProvider Class</xref>.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="sharing-projects.dita#sharing-projects"/>
      <link href="transformation-scenarios-sharing.dita#transformation-scenarios-sharing"/>
      <link href="validation-scenarios-sharing.dita#validation-scenarios-sharing"/>
      <link href="default-options.dita#default-options"/>
      <link href="import-export-preferences.dita#import-export-preferences"/>
      <link href="author-document-type-sharing.dita#author-document-type-sharing"
        product="author editor"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
