<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="sharing-custom-refactoring-operations">
  <title>Storing and Sharing Refactoring Operations</title>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> scans the following locations when looking for XML Refactoring
      operations to provide flexibility: <ul id="ul_rtp_v5m_kr">
        <li>A <filepath>refactoring</filepath> folder, created inside a directory that is associated
          to a <term>framework</term> you are customizing.</li>
        <li>Any folder. In this case, you need to <ph
            conkeyref="reusable_menus/open-the-preferences-page"/>, go to <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>XML</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>XML Refactoring</uicontrol>
          </menucascade>, and specify the same folder in the <uicontrol>Load additional refactoring
            operations from</uicontrol> text box.<note product="author developer editor">If you
            share a project with your team, you can also share the custom operation by saving them
            in a folder that is part of your project. Then switch the <uicontrol>XML
              Refactoring</uicontrol> option page at project level (<ph
              conkeyref="reusable_menus/open-the-preferences-page"/>, go to <xref
              href="preferences-xml-refactoring.dita#preferences-xml-refactoring"><menucascade>
                <uicontrol>XML</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>XML Refactoring</uicontrol>
              </menucascade></xref>, and select <uicontrol>Project Options</uicontrol> at the bottom
            of the dialog box), and in the <uicontrol>Load additional refactoring operations
              from</uicontrol> text box, use the <codeph>${pd}</codeph> editor variable so that the
            folder path is declared relative to the project.</note></li>
        <li product="author developer editor">A folder specified by the <xref
            href="../concepts/refactoring-plugin-extension.dita">XML Refactoring Operations Plugin
            Extension</xref>.</li>
        <li>The <filepath>refactoring</filepath> folder from the <ph keyref="product"/> installation
          directory (<filepath>[OXYGEN INSTALLATION DIRECTORY]/refactoring/</filepath>).</li>
      </ul></p>
    <section>
      <title>Sharing <ph product="developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse">Custom
        </ph>Refactoring Operations</title>
      <p>The purpose of <ph keyref="product"/> scanning multiple locations for the XML Refactoring
        operations is to provide more flexibility for developers who want to share the refactoring
        operations with the other team members. Depending on your particular use case, you can
        attach the <ph product="developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse">custom
        </ph>refactoring operations to other resources, such as frameworks or projects. </p>
      <p>After storing <ph product="developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse">custom
        </ph>operations, you can share them with other users by sharing the resources.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
