<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="concept_ayz_smb_2p">
 <title>The SharePoint Browser View</title>
 <shortdesc></shortdesc>
 <body>
    <p>To display the <uicontrol>SharePoint Browser</uicontrol> view, go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Window</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Show View</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>SharePoint Browser</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>. This view allows you to connect to a SharePoint repository and perform
      SharePoint-specific actions on the available resources.</p>
    <p>The view is split in several functional areas:</p>
    <section>
      <title>Connection Area</title>
      <p>The <uicontrol>Site</uicontrol> combo box allows you to select and connect to an already
          <xref href="../tasks/configure-sharepoint-connection.dita#configure-sharepoint-connection"
          >defined SharePoint connection</xref>. The <uicontrol>Disconnect</uicontrol> action
        terminates the current connection. In addition to this, there are actions that help you to
        quickly define a new connection or manage the existing ones from the <uicontrol>Data
          Source</uicontrol> options page: <uicontrol>New SharePoint Connection</uicontrol> and
          <uicontrol>Configure Database Sources</uicontrol>.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Navigation Area</title>
      <p>If there is no connection defined, this area is left blank and promotes two actions that
        allow you to add SharePoint connections.</p>
      <p>When a connection is selected in the <uicontrol>Connection Area</uicontrol>, the
          <uicontrol>Navigation Area</uicontrol> displays the SharePoint site structure in a
        tree-like fashion organized in sites, libraries, and folders. The contextual menu of a node
        offers customized actions depending on the node type.</p>
      <p>The contextual menu of a folder allows you to create new folders, new documents, and to
        rename and delete the folder. The rename and delete actions are not available for library
        root folders (folders located at first level in a SharePoint library).</p>
    </section>
    <p/>
    <p>The content of a folder selected in the tree is displayed in the right side table. The table
      columns are defined in the default view of the parent library. The rename and delete actions
      are available in the table view’s contextual menu both for documents and folders. You are able
      to check out, check in, and discard check out one or more documents at the same time. You can
      also filter and sort the displayed items. To display the available filters of a column, click
      the filter widget located on the column's header. You can apply multiple filters at the same
        time.<note>A column can be filtered or sorted only if it was configured this way on the
        server side.</note></p>
  </body>
</topic>
