<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="show-properties">
  <title>Management of SVN Properties</title><prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>SVN Client<indexterm>Properties</indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>In the <xref href="properties-view.dita"><uicontrol>Properties</uicontrol> view</xref> you
      can read and set the <ph keyref="apacheSubversion"/> properties of a file or folder. There is
      a set of predefined properties with special meaning to Subversion. For more information about
      properties in Subversion see the SVN Subversion specification. Subversion properties are
      revision dependent. After you change, add or delete a property for a resource, you have to
      commit your changes to the repository.</p>
    <p>If you want to change the properties of a given resource you need to select that resource
      from the <xref href="working-copy-view.dita"><uicontrol>Working Copy</uicontrol> view</xref>
      and run the <uicontrol>Show properties</uicontrol> action from the contextual menu. The <xref
        href="properties-view.dita"><uicontrol>Properties</uicontrol> view</xref> will show the
      local properties for the resource in the working copy. Once the <u>Properties</u> view is
      visible, it will always present the properties of the currently selected resource. There are
      actions available in the <uicontrol>Properties</uicontrol> view <xref
        href="properties-toolbar.dita">toolbar</xref> that allow you to add, change, and delete the
      properties.</p>
    <p>If you choose the <uicontrol>Add a new property</uicontrol> action, a new dialog box will
      appear that contains the following:<ul>
        <li><uicontrol>Name</uicontrol> - Combo box that allows you to enter the name of the
          property. The drop-down menu of the combo box presents the predefined Subversion
          properties (such as <uicontrol>svn:ignore</uicontrol>,
            <uicontrol>svn:externals</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>svn:needs-lock</uicontrol>, etc.)</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Current value</uicontrol> - Text area that allows you to enter the value of
          the new property.</li>
      </ul>If the selected item is a directory, you can also set the property recursively on its
      children by selecting the <uicontrol>Set property recursively</uicontrol> checkbox.</p>
    <p>If you want to change the value for a previously set property, you can use the
        <uicontrol>Edit property</uicontrol> action, which will display a dialog box with the
      following information:</p>
    <ul>
      <li><uicontrol>Name</uicontrol> - Property name (cannot be changed).</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Current value</uicontrol> - The current value (can be changed).</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Base value</uicontrol> - The value of the property, if any, from the resource
        in the pristine copy (cannot be changed).</li>
    </ul>
    <p>If you want to completely remove a property previously set you can choose the
        <uicontrol>Remove property</uicontrol> action. It will display a confirmation dialog box in
      which you can also choose if the property will be removed recursively.</p>
    <p>There is a <uicontrol>Refresh</uicontrol> action in the <xref href="properties-view.dita"
          ><uicontrol>Properties</uicontrol> view</xref> that can be used when the properties have
      been changed from outside the view. This can happen, for example, when the view was already
      presenting the properties of a resource and they have been changed after an
        <uicontrol>Update</uicontrol> operation.</p>
  </body>
</topic>