<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="site-deployment">
  <title>Group Deployment</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Installing Oxygen<indexterm>Group deployment</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>If you are deploying <ph keyref="product"/> for a group, there are a number of things you can
      do to customize <ph keyref="product"/> for your users and to make the deployment more
      efficient.</p>
    <p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Creating custom default options</dt>
          <dd>You can <xref keyref="options_customizing-default">create a custom set of default
              options</xref> for <ph keyref="product"/>. These will become the default options for
            each of your users, replacing the normal default settings. Users can still set options
            to suit themselves in their own copies of <ph keyref="product"/>, but if they choose to
            reset their options to defaults, the custom defaults that you set will be used.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Creating default project files</dt>
          <dd><ph keyref="product"/> project files are used to configure a project. You can create
            and deploy default project files for your projects so that your users will have a
            preconfigured project file to begin work with.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Shared project files</dt>
          <dd>Rather than each user having their own project file, you can create and deploy shared
            project files so that all users share the same project configuration and settings and
            automatically inherit all project changes. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry product="author developer editor svnClient">
          <dt>Using the unattended installer</dt>
          <dd>You can speed up the installation process by using the <xref
              href="eppo-installation-windows.dita#eppo-installation-windows/unattended_installation"
              >unattended installer for Windows</xref> or <xref
              href="eppo-installation-linux.dita#eppo-installation-linux/unattended_installation"
              >Linux</xref> installs.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Using floating licenses</dt>
          <dd>If you have a number of people using <ph keyref="product"/> on a part-time basis or in
            different time zones, you can use a <xref keyref="install_license-key">floating
              license</xref> so that multiple people can share a license.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
