<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="smart-editing">
  <title>Smart Editing in Text Mode</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Text editing mode<indexterm>Smart Editing</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>XML documents<indexterm>Text Mode editing<indexterm>Smart
            Editing</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Smart Editing in Text Mode</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> includes <i>smart editing</i> features to help you edit XML
      documents in <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode. The following smart editing features are
      included:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <b>Closing tag auto-expansion</b> - This feature helps save some keystrokes by automatically
        inserting a closing tag when you insert a complete start tag and the cursor is automatically
        placed in between the start and end tags. For instance, after entering a start
          <codeph>&lt;tag></codeph>, the corresponding closing <codeph>&lt;/tag></codeph> is
        automatically inserted and the cursor is placed between the two
          (<codeph>&lt;tag></codeph>|<codeph>&lt;/tag></codeph>. </li>
      <li>
        <b>Auto-rename matching tag</b> - When you edit the name of a start tag, <ph
          keyref="product"/> will mirror-edit the name of the matching end tag. This feature can be
        controlled from the <xref
          href="preferences-content-completion.dita#preferences-content-completion/auto-edit-matching-tag"
            ><b>Content Completion</b> option page</xref>. </li>
      <li>
        <b>Auto-breaking the edited line</b> - The <xref
          href="preferences-editor-format.dita#preferences-editor-format/hard-line-wrap-li"><b>Hard
            line wrap</b> option</xref> automatically breaks the edited line when its length exceeds
        the maximum line length <xref
          href="preferences-editor-format.dita#preferences-editor-format/line-width-ph">defined for
          the format and indent operation</xref>.</li>
      <li><b>Indent on Enter</b> - The <xref
          href="preferences-editor-format.dita#preferences-editor-format/indent-on-enter-li"
            ><b>Indent on Enter</b> option</xref> indents the new line inserted when you press
            <uicontrol><shortcut>Enter</shortcut></uicontrol>.</li>
      <li><b>Smart Enter</b> - The <xref
          href="preferences-editor-format.dita#preferences-editor-format/smart-enter-li"><b>Smart
            Enter</b> option</xref> inserts an empty line between the start and end tags. If you
        press <uicontrol><shortcut>Enter</shortcut></uicontrol> between a start and end tag, the
        action places the cursor in an indented position on the empty line between the lines that
        contain the start and end tag.</li>
      <li id="double-click"><b>Double-click</b> - A double-click selects certain text, depending on
        the position of the click in the document:<ul id="ul_ath_x1f_1s">
          <li>If the click position is on a start tag or end tag, then the element name is
            selected.</li>
          <li product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">If the click position is after
            a start tag or before an end tag, then the entire content of the element without the
            start and end tags is selected.</li>
          <li product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">If the click position is before
            a start tag or after an end tag, then the entire tag is selected, including the start
            and end tags, and the content in between.</li>
          <li product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">If the click position is
            immediately before an attribute, then the entire attribute and its value is
            selected.</li>
          <li>If the click position is immediately after the opening quote or immediately before the
            closing quote of an attribute value, then the entire attribute value is selected.</li>
          <li>Otherwise, a double-click selects contiguous text.</li>
        </ul></li>
      <li id="triple-click"><b>Triple-click</b> - <ph product="author developer editor">A
          triple-click selects entire regions of text, depending on the click position:</ph><ph
          product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">A triple-click selects the entire
          current line of text.</ph><ul id="ul_qwy_dbf_1s">
          <li product="author developer editor">If the click position is on a start or end tag, then
            the entire tag is selected, including the start and end tags, and the content in
            between.</li>
          <li product="author developer editor">If the click position is after a start tag or before
            an end tag, then the entire content of the element without the start and end tags is
            selected.</li>
          <li product="author developer editor">If the click position is before a start tag or after
            an end tag, then the entire tag is selected, including the start and end tags, and the
            content in between.</li>
          <li product="author developer editor">If the click position is immediately before an
            attribute, then the entire attribute and its value is selected.</li>
          <li product="author developer editor">If the click position is in between the opening and
            closing quotes of an attribute value, then the entire attribute value is selected.</li>
          <li product="author developer editor">Otherwise, it selects the entire current line of
            text.</li>
        </ul></li>
    </ul>
  </body>
</topic>
