<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="smart-paste-support">
  <title>Smart Paste in Author Mode</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Author editing mode<indexterm>Smart Paste</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>XML documents<indexterm>Author Mode editing<indexterm>Smart
            Paste</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Smart Paste support in Author Mode</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_tbx_bgk_54b">The <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> editing mode includes a <term>Smart
        Paste</term> feature that preserves certain style and structure information when copying
      content and pasting it into document types that support the feature. You can copy content from
      various sources, including web pages, external applications (such as Office-type
      applications), Markdown documents, or other types of documents and then paste it into DITA,
      TEI, DocBook, JATS, and XHTML documents. <ph keyref="product"/> preserves the original text
      styling (such as bold, italics, underline) and formatting (such as lists, tables, paragraphs)
      and considers various pasting solutions to keep the resulting document valid.</p>
    <p id="p_ubx_bgk_54b">The styles and general layout of the pasted content are converted to the equivalent XML
      markup for the target document type while preserving certain style and structure information.
      For example, if you copy content that includes multiple paragraphs and then paste it in
        <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode, the multiple paragraph structure is preserved. If you
      paste the content in a location where the resulting XML would not be valid, <ph
        keyref="product"/> will attempt to place it in a valid location, and may prompt you with one
      or more choices for where to place it.</p>
    <note type="other" id="note_vbx_bgk_54b" othertype="Notes">
      <ul id="ul_bjf_ycn_15b">
        <li id="li_cjf_ycn_15b">When pasting text fragments formatted with the <i>Courier New</i>
          font, the <term>Smart Paste</term> mechanism will wrap it in an inline code element (for
          example, in DITA it would be wrapped in a <xmlelement>codeph</xmlelement> element).</li>
        <li id="li_kvr_ycn_15b">Review comments that exist in the copied Word content are
          intentionally ignored when pasting the content in <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode.</li>
      </ul>
    </note>
    <section id="smart_paste_options">
      <title>Smart Paste Options</title>
      <p id="p_wbx_bgk_54b">By default, the <term>Smart Paste</term> feature is enabled in <ph keyref="product"/>.
        There are several options in the <xref
          href="preferences-schema-aware.dita#preferences-schema-aware"><uicontrol>Schema
            Aware</uicontrol> preferences page</xref> that control the <term>Smart Paste</term> mechanism:<ul id="ul_xbx_bgk_54b">
          <li id="li_ybx_bgk_54b"><xref
              href="preferences-schema-aware.dita#preferences-schema-aware/smart-paste-drag-drop"
                ><uicontrol>Smart paste and drag and drop</uicontrol></xref> - This option
            determines whether or not <ph keyref="product"/> will try to find an appropriate insert
            position when the current location is not valid for the pasted content. This option is
            selected by default.</li>
          <li id="li_zbx_bgk_54b"><xref href="preferences-schema-aware.dita#preferences-schema-aware/reject-action"
                ><uicontrol>Reject action when its result is invalid</uicontrol></xref> - If you
            select this option, <ph keyref="product"/> will not let you paste content into a
            position where it would be invalid. This option is deselected by default.</li>
          <li id="li_acx_bgk_54b"><xref
              href="preferences-schema-aware.dita#preferences-schema-aware/convert_external_content_on_paste"
                ><uicontrol>Convert external content on paste</uicontrol></xref> - This option
            determines whether or not <ph keyref="product"/> will convert the styling and formatting
            of copied content from external sources when pasting it into a document type that
            supports the feature. This option is selected by default.</li>
          <li id="li_bcx_bgk_54b"><xref
              href="preferences-schema-aware.dita#preferences-schema-aware/convert-even-space-preserve"
                ><uicontrol>Convert even when pasting inside space-preserve
              elements</uicontrol></xref> - If you select this option, the <term>Smart Paste</term>
            feature will also work when pasting external content into a <term>space-preserve</term>
            element (such as a <xmlelement>codeblock</xmlelement>). This option is deselected by
            default.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section id="doc-types-sp-p">
      <title>Smart Paste Supported Document Types</title>
      <p id="p_ccx_bgk_54b">The <term>Smart Paste</term> feature is supported for the following document types (<xref
          keyref="glossentry_framework"><term>frameworks</term></xref>):<ul id="ul_dcx_bgk_54b">
          <li id="li_ecx_bgk_54b">DITA</li>
          <li id="li_fcx_bgk_54b">DocBook 4</li>
          <li id="li_gcx_bgk_54b">DocBook 5</li>
          <li id="li_hcx_bgk_54b">TEI</li>
          <li id="li_icx_bgk_54b">XHTML</li>
          <li id="li_jcx_bgk_54b">JATS</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_vms_yx2_w5b">
      <title>Resources</title>
      <p id="p_kcx_bgk_54b">For more information about the <term>Smart Paste</term> support, watch
        our video demonstration:</p>
      <p id="p_lcx_bgk_54b"><object width="450" height="250"
          data="https://www.youtube.com/embed/bpiXZQwzBfA" outputclass="iframe">
          <param name="allowfullscreen" value="true"/>
        </object></p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="author-customize-smart-paste.dita#author-customize-smart-paste"/>
      <link href="ooxml-to-dita.dita"/>
      <link format="html" href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/oxygen-resources-converter"
        scope="external">
        <linktext><b>Oxygen Batch Converter add-on</b> (Convert Markdown/HTML to DITA or
          DocBook)</linktext>
      </link>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
