<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="spell-checking-dictionaries">
  <title>Spell Check Dictionaries and Term Lists</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Spell checking<indexterm>Dictionaries and term lists</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_fk5_bgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> uses the <b>Hunspell</b> engine for the spell checking feature.
      The Hunspell spell checking engine is open source and has an LGPL license. It is designed for
      languages with rich morphology and complex compounding or character encoding. Each
      language-country variant combination have their own specific dictionaries. <ph
        keyref="product"/> includes the following built-in dictionaries for the spell checker:</p>
    <ul id="ul_gk5_bgk_54b">
      <li id="li_hk5_bgk_54b">English (US) [<codeph>en_US</codeph>]</li>
      <li id="li_ik5_bgk_54b">English (UK) [<codeph>en_GB</codeph>]</li>
      <li id="li_jk5_bgk_54b">French [<codeph>fr</codeph>]</li>
      <li id="li_kk5_bgk_54b">German [<codeph>de_DE</codeph>]</li>
      <li id="li_lk5_bgk_54b">Spanish [<codeph>es_ES</codeph>]</li>
    </ul>
    <section id="other_hunspell_dictionaries">
      <title>Other Hunspell Dictionaries</title>
      <p id="p_mk5_bgk_54b">You can also download Hunspell dictionaries for other languages and add
        them to the <ph keyref="product"/> spell checker. For a website that includes numerous
        dictionary files, see: <xref href="https://extensions.openoffice.org/" format="html"
          scope="external"/>.</p>
      <p id="p_nk5_bgk_54b">If you cannot find a Hunspell dictionary that is already built for your language, you can
        build the dictionary you need. To build a full Hunspell dictionary, follow <xref
          href="https://github.com/hunspell/hunspell" format="html" scope="external">these
          instructions</xref> and then add the dictionary to the <ph keyref="product"/> spell
        checker by following <xref href="add-Hunspell-dictionary.dita#add-Hunspell-dictionary">this
          procedure</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="personalized_term_lists">
      <title>Personalized Term Lists</title>
      <p id="p_ok5_bgk_54b">Authoring in certain areas of expertise (for example, the pharmaceutical or automobile
        industries) might require the use of specific terms that are not part of the standard spell
        checker dictionary. To avoid marking these terms as errors, <ph keyref="product"/> provides
        a way of <xref href="add-terms-list.dita#add-terms-list">adding personalized <term>term
            lists</term></xref> to the spell check engine. This involves creating a term list file
        that the spell checker will recognize and it is similar to the file <ph keyref="product"/>
        uses for storing <xref href="learned-words.dita#learned-words"><term>learned
          words</term></xref>.</p>
      <p id="p_pk5_bgk_54b">The term list files are specific for each language and can be specific to each domain or
        area of expertise (for example, <i>legal</i>, <i>medical</i>,
          <i>automotive</i>). They can also be used to control forbidden words.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
      <link href="add-Hunspell-dictionary.dita#add-Hunspell-dictionary"/>
      <link href="add-terms-list.dita#add-terms-list"/>
      <link format="html" href="https://github.com/hunspell/hunspell" scope="external">
        <linktext>Building and Testing Hunspell Dictionaries</linktext>
      </link>
  </related-links>
</topic>
