<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="sqf-operations">
  <title>Basic Schematron Quick Fix Operations</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Schematron Quick Fixes<indexterm>SQF Operations</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>SQF<indexterm>Operations</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Schematron Quick Fix Operations<indexterm>Add</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Schematron Quick Fix Operations<indexterm>Delete</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Schematron Quick Fix Operations<indexterm>Replace</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Schematron Quick Fix Operations<indexterm>String Replace</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>There are four basic operations that can be executed in a Schematron <xref
        keyref="glossentry_quick-fix"><term>Quick Fix</term></xref>: <b>Add</b>, <b>Delete</b>,
        <b>Replace</b>, and <b>String Replace</b>.</p>
    <p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b>Add</b></dt>
          <dd><p>The <xmlelement>sqf:add</xmlelement> element allows you to add a node to the instance. An
                <term>anchor</term> node is required to select the position for the new node. The
                <term>anchor</term> node can be selected by the <xmlatt>match</xmlatt> attribute.
              Otherwise, it is selected by the <xmlatt>context</xmlatt> attribute of the rule.</p>
            <p>The <xmlatt>target</xmlatt> attribute defines the name of the node to be added. It is
              required if the value of the <xmlatt>node-type</xmlatt> attribute is set to anything
              other than "comment".</p>
            <p>The <xmlelement>sqf:add</xmlelement> element has a <xmlatt>position</xmlatt>
              attribute and it determines the position relative to the <term>anchor</term> node. The
              new node could be specified as the first child of the <term>anchor</term> node, the
              last child of the <term>anchor</term> node, before the <term>anchor</term> node, or
              after the <term>anchor</term> node (<codeph>first-child</codeph> is the default
              value). If you want to add an attribute to the <term>anchor</term> node, do not use
              the <xmlatt>position</xmlatt> attribute.</p>
            <p>
              <note>If you insert an element and its content is empty, <ph keyref="product"/> will
                insert the required element content.</note>
            </p>
            <p><b>An Example of the <xmlelement>sqf:add</xmlelement>
              Element:</b><codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;schema xmlns="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"
   xmlns:sqf="http://www.schematron-quickfix.com/validator/process"
 queryBinding="xslt2">
   &lt;pattern>
     &lt;rule context="head">
        &lt;assert test="title" sqf:fix="addTitle">title element missing.&lt;/assert>
        &lt;sqf:fix id="addTitle">
            &lt;sqf:description>
                &lt;sqf:title>Insert title element.&lt;/sqf:title>
            &lt;/sqf:description>
           &lt;sqf:add target="title" node-type="element">Title text&lt;/sqf:add>
        &lt;/sqf:fix>
     &lt;/rule>
   &lt;/pattern>
&lt;/schema></codeblock></p>
            <p><b>Specific Add Operations:</b><ul id="ul_a53_5nf_3r">
                <li><b>Insert Element</b> - To insert an element, use the
                    <xmlelement>sqf:add</xmlelement> element, set the value of the
                    <xmlatt>node-type</xmlatt> attribute as "element", and specify the element <xref
                    keyref="glossentry_qname"><term>QName</term></xref> with the
                    <xmlatt>target</xmlatt> attribute. If the element has a prefix, it must be
                  defined in the Schematron using a namespace declaration (<codeph>&lt;ns
                    uri="namespace" prefix="prefix"/></codeph>).</li>
                <li><b>Insert Attribute</b> - To insert an attribute, use the
                    <xmlelement>sqf:add</xmlelement> element, set the value of the
                    <xmlatt>node-type</xmlatt> attribute as "attribute", and specify the attribute
                    <xref keyref="glossentry_qname"><term>QName</term></xref> with the
                    <xmlatt>target</xmlatt> attribute. If the attribute has a prefix, it must be
                  defined in the Schematron using a namespace declaration (<codeph>&lt;ns
                    uri="namespace" prefix="prefix"/></codeph>).</li>
                <li><b>Insert Fragment</b> - If the <xmlatt>node-type</xmlatt> attribute is not
                  specified, the <xmlelement>sqf:add</xmlelement> element will insert an XML
                  fragment. The XML fragment must be well formed. You can specify the fragment in
                  the <xmlelement>sqf:add</xmlelement> element or by using the
                    <xmlatt>select</xmlatt> attribute. </li>
                <li><b>Insert Comment</b> - To insert a comment, use the
                    <xmlelement>sqf:add</xmlelement> element and set the value of the
                    <xmlatt>node-type</xmlatt> attribute as "comment".</li>
                <li><b>Insert Processing Instruction</b> - To insert a processing instruction, use
                  the <xmlelement>sqf:add</xmlelement> element, set the value of the
                    <xmlatt>node-type</xmlatt> attribute as "pi" or "processing-instruction", and
                  specify the name of the processing instruction in the <xmlatt>target</xmlatt>
                  attribute.</li>
              </ul></p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b>Delete</b></dt>
          <dd>
            <p>The <xmlelement>sqf:delete</xmlelement> element allows you to remove any type of node
              (such as elements, attributes, text, comments, or processing instructions). To specify
              nodes for deletion, the <xmlelement>sqf:delete</xmlelement> element can include a
                <xmlatt>match</xmlatt> attribute that is an XPath expression (the default value is
                <codeph>.</codeph>). If the <xmlatt>match</xmlatt> attribute is not included, it
              deletes the context node of the Schematron rule.</p>
            <p><b>An Example of the <xmlelement>sqf:delete</xmlelement>
              Element:</b><codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;schema xmlns="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron" queryBinding="xslt2" 
    xmlns:sqf="http://www.schematron-quickfix.com/validator/process">
    &lt;pattern>
        &lt;rule context="*[@xml:lang]">
            &lt;report test="@xml:lang" sqf:fix="remove_lang">
                The attribute "xml:lang" is forbidden.&lt;/report>
            &lt;sqf:fix id="remove_lang">
                &lt;sqf:description>
                    &lt;sqf:title>Remove "xml:lang" attribute&lt;/sqf:title>
                &lt;/sqf:description>
                &lt;sqf:delete match="@xml:lang"/>
            &lt;/sqf:fix>
        &lt;/rule>
    &lt;/pattern>
&lt;/schema></codeblock></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b>Replace</b></dt>
          <dd>
            <p>The <xmlelement>sqf:replace</xmlelement> element allows you to replace nodes. Similar
              to the <xmlelement>sqf:delete</xmlelement> element, it can include a
                <xmlatt>match</xmlatt> attribute. Otherwise, it replaces the context node of the
              rule. The <xmlelement>sqf:replace</xmlelement> element has three tasks. It identifies
              the nodes to be replaced, defines the replacing nodes, and defines their content.</p>
            <p><b>An Example of the <xmlelement>sqf:replace</xmlelement>
              Element:</b><codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;schema xmlns="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"
    xmlns:sqf="http://www.schematron-quickfix.com/validator/process"
 queryBinding="xslt2">
    &lt;pattern>
        &lt;rule context="title">
            &lt;report test="exists(ph)" sqf:fix="resolvePh" role="warn">
                ph element is not allowed in title.&lt;/report>
            &lt;sqf:fix id="resolvePh">
                &lt;sqf:description>
                    &lt;sqf:title>Change the ph element into text&lt;/sqf:title>
                &lt;/sqf:description>
                &lt;sqf:replace match="ph">
                    &lt;value-of select="."/>
                &lt;/sqf:replace>
            &lt;/sqf:fix>
        &lt;/rule>
    &lt;/pattern>
&lt;/schema></codeblock></p>
            <p><b>Other Attributes for Replace Operations:</b><ul id="ul_upg_3zf_3r">
                <li><b>node-type</b> - Determines the type of the replacing node. The permitted
                  values include:<ul id="ul_pfj_mzf_3r">
                    <li><b>keep</b> - Keeps the node type of the node to be replaced.</li>
                    <li><b>element</b> - Replaces the node with an element.</li>
                    <li><b>attribute</b> - Replaces the node with an attribute.</li>
                    <li><b>pi</b> - Replaces the node with a processing instruction.</li>
                    <li><b>comment</b> - Replaces the node with a comment.</li>
                  </ul></li>
                <li><b>target</b> - By using a <xref keyref="glossentry_qname"
                    ><term>QName</term></xref> it gives the replacing node a name. This is necessary
                  when the value of the <xmlatt>node-type</xmlatt> attribute is anything other than
                  "comment".</li>
                <li><b>select</b> - Allows you to choose the content of the replacing nodes. You can
                  use XPath expressions with the <xmlatt>select</xmlatt> attribute. If the
                    <xmlatt>select</xmlatt> attribute is not specified then the content of the
                    <xmlelement>sqf:replace</xmlelement> element is used instead. </li>
              </ul></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="string-replace">
          <dt><b>String Replace</b></dt>
          <dd>
            <p>The <xmlelement>sqf:stringReplace</xmlelement> element is different from the others.
              It can be used to find a sub-string of text content and replace it with nodes or other
              strings.</p>
            <p><b>Attributes for the String Replace Operation:</b><ul id="ul_dwx_xxl_kr">
                <li><b>match</b> - Allows you to select text nodes that contain the sub-strings you
                  want to replace.</li>
                <li><b>select</b> - Allows you to select the replacing fragment, in case you do not
                  want to set it in the content of the <xmlelement>stringReplace</xmlelement>
                  element.</li>
                <li><b>regex</b> - Matches the sub-strings using a regular expression.<note>Consider
                    the following information about using regular expressions in the
                      <xmlelement>stringReplace</xmlelement> element:<ul>
                      <li>The regular expressions from this operation are compiled as Java regular
                        expressions. For more information, see <xref
                          href="https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/regex/Pattern.html"
                          format="html" scope="external"/>.</li>
                      <li>The <i><b>j flag</b></i> allows you to use the standard Java regular
                        expression engine, which allows native Java regular expression syntax. This
                        allows, for example, the use of <codeph><b>\b</b></codeph> in a regular
                        expression to match word boundaries. For more information, see <xref
                          href="http://www.saxonica.com/html/documentation/functions/fn/matches.html"
                          format="html" scope="external"/>.</li>
                      <li>Regular expressions in the <xmlelement>sqf:stringReplace</xmlelement>
                        element always have the <i>dot matches all</i> flag set to "true".
                        Therefore, the line terminator will also be matched by the regular
                        expression. </li>
                    </ul></note></li>
                <li><b>flags</b> - Specifies flags to control the interpretation of the regular
                  expression (given in the <xmlatt>regex</xmlatt> attribute).</li>
              </ul></p>
            <p>
              <note type="attention">The context of the content within the
                  <xmlelement>sqf:stringReplace</xmlelement> element is set to the whole text node,
                rather than the current sub-string.</note>
            </p>
            <p><b>An Example of the <xmlelement>sqf:stringReplace</xmlelement>
              Element:</b><codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;sch:schema xmlns:sch="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"
    xmlns:sqf="http://www.schematron-quickfix.com/validator/process"
 queryBinding="xslt2">
    &lt;sch:pattern>
        &lt;sch:rule context="text()">
            &lt;sch:report test="matches(., 'Oxygen', 'i')"
 sqf:fix="changeWord">The oXygen word is not allowed&lt;/sch:report>
            &lt;sqf:fix id="changeWord">
                &lt;sqf:description>
                    &lt;sqf:title>Replace word with product&lt;/sqf:title>
                &lt;/sqf:description>
                &lt;sqf:stringReplace regex="Oxygen" flags="i">&lt;ph keyref="product"/>
                &lt;/sqf:stringReplace>
            &lt;/sqf:fix>
        &lt;/sch:rule>
    &lt;/sch:pattern>
&lt;/sch:schema></codeblock></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="user-entry-sqf-operation.dita#user-entry-sqf-operation"/>
      <link href="use-when-sqf-condition.dita#use-when-sqf-condition"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
