<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="structure-change-outliner">
  <title>Document Structure Change</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>XML Outline View<indexterm>document structure
        change</indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>Entire XML elements can be moved or copied in the edited document using only the mouse in the
        <uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol> view in drag-and-drop operations. Several drag and drop
      actions are possible:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>If you drag an XML element in the <uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol> view and drop it on
        another one in the same panel then the dragged element will be moved after the drop target
        element.</li>
      <li>If you hold the mouse pointer over the drop target for a short time before the drop then
        the drop target element will be expanded first and the dragged element will be moved inside
        the drop target element after its opening tag.</li>
      <li>You can also drop an element before or after another element if you hold the mouse pointer
        towards the upper or lower part of the targeted element. A marker will indicate whether the
        drop will be performed before or after the target element.</li>
      <li>If you hold down the <uicontrol>
          <shortcut>(Ctrl (Meta on Mac OS))</shortcut></uicontrol> key after dragging, there will
        be performed a copy operation instead of a move one.</li>
    </ul>
    <p>The drag and drop action in the <uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol> view can be <xref href="preferences-view.dita">disabled and enabled from the Preferences dialog.</xref>
    </p>
    <note type="tip" product="author authorEclipse editor editorEclipse">You can select and drag
      multiple nodes in the Author Outline tree.</note>
  </body>
</topic>