<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="SVG-documents">
  <title>Editing SVG Files</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>SVG files</indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><term>SVG</term> (Scalable Vector Graphics) is a platform for two-dimensional graphics. It
      has two parts: an XML-based file format and a programming API for graphical applications. Some
      of the key features include support for shapes, text, and embedded raster graphics with many
      painting styles, scripting through languages such as <term>ECMAScript</term>, and support for
      animation.</p>
    <p>SVG is a vendor-neutral, open standard that has important industry support. Companies such as
      Adobe, Apple, and IBM have contributed to its W3C specifications. Many documentation <xref
        keyref="glossentry_framework"><term>frameworks</term></xref> (including DocBook) have
      support for SVG by defining the graphics directly in the document.</p>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> adds SVG support by using the <xref
        href="http://xml.apache.org/batik/" scope="external" format="html">Batik distribution</xref>
      package (an open source project developed by the Apache Software Foundation) and the <xref
        href="using-XML-Catalogs.dita">default XML catalog</xref> resolves the SVG DTD.<note>Batik
        partially supports SVG 1.1. For a detailed list of supported elements, attributes, and
        properties, see the <xref href="http://xmlgraphics.apache.org/batik/status.html"
          format="html" scope="external">Batik Implementation Status</xref> page.</note></p>
    <section id="how_to_render_svg_images_that_use_java_scripting">
      <title>How to Render SVG Images that Use Java Scripting</title>
      <ol>
        <li>Copy the <filepath>js.jar</filepath> library from the <xref
            href="http://xml.apache.org/batik/" scope="external" format="html">Batik
            distribution</xref> into the <ph keyref="product"/>
          <filepath>lib</filepath> folder.</li>
        <li>Restart the application.</li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    <section id="svg_12_rendering_issues">
      <title>SVG 1.2 Rendering Issues</title>
      <p><ph keyref="product"/> uses the <i>Apache Batik</i> open source library to render SVG
        images and it only has partial support for SVG 1.2. For more information, see <xref
          href="http://xmlgraphics.apache.org/batik/dev/svg12.html" format="html" scope="external"
        />. </p>
      <p>This partial support could lead to some rendering issues in <ph keyref="product"/>. For
        example, if you are using the <term>Inkscape</term> SVG editor, it is possible for it to
        save the SVG as 1.1, while using SVG 1.2 elements (such as <codeph>flowRoot</codeph>) inside
        it. This means that the image will not be properly rendered inside the application.<note
          product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse">SVG images shown in the
            <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> visual editing mode are rendered as static images, without
          support for animations and JavaScript.</note></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
