<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="svn-patches">
    <title>Patches</title>
    <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>SVN Client<indexterm>Branches/Tags<indexterm>Patching</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
    <body>
        <p>This section explains how to work with patches in <ph keyref="svnProduct"/>.</p>
    <section id="what_is_a_patch">
      <title>What is a Patch</title>
      <p>Suppose you are working with a set of XML files that you want to tag the project and
        distribute releases to other team members. While working on the project and correcting
        problems, you may need to distribute the corrections to other team members. In this case,
        you can distribute a patch (a collection of differences) that would correct the problems
        when applied over the last distribution. By default, the <ph keyref="svnProduct"/> generates
        patches in <xref href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diff#Unified_format" scope="external"
          format="html">the Unified Diff format</xref>, but it can also use <xref
          href="create-patch-options.dita#create-patch-options/git-dlentry">the <term>Git</term>
          format</xref>. </p>
      <p>Creating a patch in <ph keyref="apacheSubversion"/> implies the access to either two
        revisions of a versioned item, or two different versioned items from the repository:</p>
      <ul id="ul_hqf_5cx_lr">
        <li><i>Two revisions of a version item</i> - the item can be local or remote and you can
          select two versions of it. This also applies when you need to generate a patch that only
          contains the changes in the working copy that were not yet committed.</li>
        <li><i>Two different versioned items from the repository</i> - the items are remote and you
          need to specify a revision for both.</li>
      </ul>
      <note type="warning">The resulting patch file may contain content that was written using a mix
        of encodings, based upon the encodings of the files that were compared. If you open the
        generated patch file in a text editor, it may result in unrecognizable content.</note>
    </section>
    </body>
</topic>