<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/task.dtd">
<task id="synchronize-branch">
  <title>Synchronize a Branch</title>
  <taskbody>
    <context>
      <p>While working on your own branch, other people on your team might continue to make
        important changes in the parent branch (which can be the <i>trunk</i> itself or any other
        branch). It is recommended to periodically duplicate those changes in your branch to make
        sure your changes are compatible with them. This is done by performing a <i>synchronize
          merge</i>, which will bring your branch up-to-date with any changes made to its ancestral
        parent branch since your branch was last created or synchronized. Subversion is aware of the
        history of your branch and can detect when it split away from the parent branch.</p>
      <p>Frequently keeping your branch in sync with the parent branch helps you to prevent
        unexpected conflicts when the time comes for you to duplicate your changes back into the
        parent branch. The synchronization uses <i>merge tracking</i> to skip all those revisions
        that have already been merged, thus a sync merge can be repeated periodically to fetch all
        the latest changes of the parent branch to keep up-to-date with it.</p>
      <p>
        <note type="important">It is recommended to synchronize the whole working copy that was
          created from the child branch (the root of the working copy), rather than just a part of
          it.</note>
      </p>
      <p>After running the <i>synchronize merge</i>, your working copy from the child branch now
        contains new local modifications, and these edits are duplications of all of the changes
        that have happened on the <i>trunk</i> since you first created your branch. At this point,
        your private branch is now synchronized with the trunk.</p>
      <p>To synchronize your branch with its parent branch, follow these steps: </p>
    </context>
    <steps id="steps_ejx_brz_h4">
      <step id="start-wizard">
        <cmd>Go to <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Tools</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Merge</uicontrol>
          </menucascade>.</cmd>
        <stepresult>The <uicontrol>Merge</uicontrol> wizard is opened.</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Select the <uicontrol>Synchronize branch</uicontrol> option.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step id="pre-merge-checks-step">
        <cmd>It is recommended that you select the <uicontrol>Perform pre-merge best practices
            checks of the working copy target</uicontrol> option to make sure that the working copy
          target item is ready for the merge operation.</cmd>
        <substeps id="substeps_b4c_vqr_4r">
          <substep>
            <cmd>Press the <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol> button.</cmd>
            <stepresult>If the <uicontrol>Perform pre-merge best practices checks of the working
                copy target</uicontrol> option is selected, <xref
                href="pre-merge-checks.dita#pre-merge-checks">the <uicontrol>Pre-Merge
                  Checks</uicontrol> wizard page</xref> is displayed.<note>If errors are found you
                need to solve them before proceeding.</note></stepresult>
          </substep>
        </substeps>
      </step>
      <step id="merge_wizard_second_page">
        <cmd>Press the <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol> button.</cmd>
        <stepresult>The <uicontrol>Synchronize branch</uicontrol> wizard page is
          displayed.</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the <b>Parent branch (URL)</b> text box, enter <xref
            href="entering-local-paths-urls.dita#entering-local-paths-urls/url-section"
            >the URL of the <i>branch</i> from which you created your branch</xref>. This means that
          the URL must belong to the same repository as your working copy that was created from the
          child branch.</cmd>
        <info> You may also click the <uicontrol>Browse</uicontrol> button to browse the repository
          and find the desired branch. If you have previously merged from this branch, then you can
          simply use the drop down menu, which displays a history of previously used URLs. <note
            type="tip">You can also specify a <xref
              href="using-peg-revisions.dita#using-peg-revisions"><i>peg
              revision</i></xref> at the end of the URL (for example, <codeph>URL@rev1234</codeph>).
            The peg revision specifies both the peg revision of the URL and the latest revision that
            will be considered for merging. By default, the <codeph>HEAD</codeph> revision is
            assumed.</note></info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd><ph id="config-options-ph">Optionally, if you want to <xref
              href="merge-options.dita#merge-options">configure the options</xref> for
            your merge, press the <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol> button.</ph></cmd>
        <stepresult><ph id="options-set-result">The <xref
              href="merge-options.dita#merge-options"><uicontrol>Merge Options</uicontrol>
              wizard page</xref> is displayed that allows you to configure options for the
            operation.</ph><note>The <uicontrol>Ignore ancestry / Disable merge tracking</uicontrol>
            option is not available for this merge type, since a synchronization merge should always
            be recorded in the destination branch.</note></stepresult>
      </step>
      <step id="perform-merge">
        <cmd>Press the <uicontrol>Merge</uicontrol> button.</cmd>
        <stepresult>The merge operation is performed.</stepresult>
      </step>
    </steps>
    <result id="merge-result">
      <p>If the merge is completed successfully, all the changes corresponding to the selected
        revisions should be merged in your working copy.</p>
    </result>
    <postreq id="merge-postreq">
      <p>It is recommended to look at the results of the merge, in the working copy, to review the
        changes and see if it meets your expectations. Since merging can sometimes be complicated,
          <xref href="resolve-merge-conflicts.dita#resolve-merge-conflicts" format="dita"
          >you may need to resolve conflicts</xref> after making major changes.<note type="note"><ph
            id="commit-merge-result">The merge result is only in your local working copy and needs
            to be committed to the repository for it to be available to others.</ph></note></p>
    </postreq>
  </taskbody>
</task>
