<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="translator-helper-addon">
  <title>Translator Helper Add-on</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Add-ons<indexterm>Translator Helper</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Translator helper</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_kdh_dgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> offers an add-on that provides support for helping translators. Once
      the add-on is installed, you can use <xref href="https://translate.google.com" format="html"
        scope="external">Google Translate</xref> to create a preliminary translation for your XML
      content that can later be manually improved. The add-on is also useful for showing potential
      customers how a DITA project will look like after it is translated into their native
      language.</p>
    <p id="p_ldh_dgk_54b">To install the add-on, follow these instructions:</p>
    <ol id="ol_r12_jyz_rmb">
      <li id="li_mdh_dgk_54b">Go to <b>Help > Install new add-ons</b> to open an add-on selection dialog box.</li>
      <li id="li_ndh_dgk_54b">Enter or paste <b>http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Addons/default/updateSite.xml</b>
        in the <b>Show add-ons from</b> field.</li>
      <li id="li_odh_dgk_54b">Select the <b>Translator Helper</b> add-on and click <b>Next</b>.</li>
      <li id="li_pdh_dgk_54b">Read the end-user license agreement. Then select the <uicontrol>I accept all terms of
        the end-user license agreement</uicontrol> option and click <uicontrol>Finish</uicontrol>.</li>
      <li id="li_qdh_dgk_54b">Restart <ph keyref="product"/>.</li>
    </ol>
    <section id="section_s12_jyz_rmb">
      <title>Features:</title>
      <ul id="ol_t12_jyz_rmb">
        <li id="li_rdh_dgk_54b">You can translate content to various languages using <term>Google
            Translate</term> or <term>DeepL Translator</term>:<ol id="ol_vlv_dk3_5mb">
            <li id="li_sdh_dgk_54b">In <ph keyref="product"/>, select the content you want to
              translate in <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode. You can also select the entire
              contents of the document.</li>
            <li id="li_tdh_dgk_54b">Right-click, select <uicontrol>Translate</uicontrol>, and choose
              the target translator and language.</li>
            <li id="li_udh_dgk_54b">Copy the translated content from the resulting web page (the
              easiest way to do this is to use the <uicontrol>Copy translation</uicontrol> button
              for <term>Google Translate</term> or the <uicontrol>Copy to clipboard</uicontrol>
              button for <term>DeepL Translator</term>).</li>
            <li id="li_vdh_dgk_54b">Go back to <ph keyref="product"/>. If your original selection
              included multiple inline elements (or entire block elements or the entire document), a
              dialog box will be displayed. Click the <uicontrol>Replace</uicontrol> button to
              replace the selection with the copied translated content. If you leave the
                <uicontrol>Show original content side-by-side</uicontrol> option selected, the
              original untranslated content will be displayed in the <uicontrol>Translator
                Helper</uicontrol> side view.</li>
          </ol></li>
        <li id="li_wdh_dgk_54b">You can choose to display your original content in a <uicontrol>Translator
            Helper</uicontrol> side view so that you can see the original untranslated content
          side-by-side with the content that you are editing/translating. To open this side view,
          right-click anywhere in the <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode editor pane and select the
            <uicontrol>Original Content Side By Side</uicontrol> action (or select <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Window</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Show View</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Translator Helper</uicontrol>
          </menucascade>).</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="section_x2n_vhh_vrb">
      <title>Resources</title>
      <p id="p_orm_dgk_54b">For more information about the Translator Helper add-on, as well as
        details regarding other popular add-ons that extend the functionality of <ph
          keyref="product"/>, watch the following webinars/presentations:<ul id="ul_kgv_tx1_jsb">
          <li id="li_lgv_tx1_jsb"><xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/events/2021/webinar_add_ons_you_can_use_for_technical_writing.html"
              format="html" scope="external">Webinar: Add-ons You Can Use for Technical
              Writing</xref></li>
          <li id="li_gfb_xx1_jsb"><xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/events/2020/webinar_extending_the_functionality_of_Oxygen_using_add_ons.html"
              format="html" scope="external">Webinar: Extending the Functionality of Oxygen Using
              Add-ons</xref></li>
          <li id="li_kld_zx1_jsb"><xref href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RqnsdLgCgog"
              format="html" scope="external">XML Prague Conference Presentation: All About Oxygen
              Add-ons</xref></li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
