<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="transformation-scenario">
  <title>Transformation Scenarios</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>Transforming Documents</indexterm><indexterm>Transformation Scenarios</indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <p id="p_ttk_cgk_54b">A transformation scenario is a set of complex operations and settings that gives you the
      possibility to obtain outputs of multiple types (XML, HTML, PDF, EPUB, etc.) from the same
      source of XML files and stylesheets.<note id="note_utk_cgk_54b">You need to use the appropriate stylesheet according
        to the source definition and the desired output. For example, if you want to transform into
        an HTML format using a DocBook stylesheet, your source XML document should conform with the
        DocBook DTD.</note></p>
    <p id="p_vtk_cgk_54b">Executing a transformation scenario implies multiple actions, such as:<ul id="ul_wtk_cgk_54b">
        <li id="li_xtk_cgk_54b">Validating the input file.</li>
        <li id="li_ytk_cgk_54b">Obtaining intermediate output files (for example, formatting objects for the XML to PDF
          transformation).</li>
        <li id="li_ztk_cgk_54b">Using transformation engines to produce the output.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p id="p_a5k_cgk_54b">Before transforming an XML document in <ph keyref="product"/>, you need to define a
      transformation scenario to apply to that document. A scenario is a set of values for various
      parameters that define a transformation. It is not related to a particular document, but
      rather to a document type. <ph keyref="product"/> includes <xref
        href="builtin-transformation-scenarios.dita#builtin-transformation-scenarios">preconfigured
        built-in transformation scenarios</xref>, but you can also <xref
        href="defining-new-transformation-scenario.dita#defining-new-transformation-scenario">create
        new transformation scenarios</xref>.</p>
    <p id="p_b5k_cgk_54b">When creating new transformation scenarios, the types that are available include:</p>
    <ul id="ul_c5k_cgk_54b">
      <li id="li_d5k_cgk_54b"><b>Scenarios that Apply to XML Files</b> - This type of scenario contains the location of
        an XSLT stylesheet that is applied on the edited XML document, as well as other
        transformation parameters. For more information, see <xref
          href="xml-transformation-with-xslt.dita#xml-transformation-with-xslt"/> and <xref
          href="xml-transformation-with-xquery.dita#xml-transformation-with-xquery"/>.</li>
      <li id="li_e5k_cgk_54b"><b>Scenarios that Apply to XSLT Files</b> - This type of scenario contains the location of
        an XML document that the edited XSLT stylesheet is applied to, as well as other transform
        parameters. For more information, see <xref
          href="xslt-transformation.dita#xslt-transformation"/>.</li>
      <li id="li_f5k_cgk_54b"><b>Scenarios that Apply to XQuery Files</b> - This type of scenario contains the location
        of an XML source, that the edited XQuery file is applied to, as well as other transform
        parameters. When the XML source is a native XML database, the XML source field of the
        scenario is empty because the XML data is read with XQuery-specific functions, such as
          <codeph>document()</codeph>. When the XML source is a local XML file, the URL of the file
        is specified in the XML input field of the scenario. For more information, see <xref
          href="xquery-transformation.dita#xquery-transformation"/>.</li>
      <li><b>Scenarios that Apply to JSON Files</b> - This type of scenario contains the location of
        an XSLT stylesheet that is applied on the edited JSON document, as well as other
        transformation parameters. For more information, see <xref
          href="json-transformation-with-xslt.dita"/> and <xref
          href="xslt-transformation-on-json.dita"/>.</li>
      <li id="li_g5k_cgk_54b"><b>Scenarios that Apply to SQL Files</b> - This type of scenario specifies a database
        connection for the database server that runs the SQL file that is associated with the
        scenario. The data processed by the SQL script is located in the database.</li>
      <li id="li_h5k_cgk_54b"><b>Scenarios that Apply to XProc Files</b> - This type of scenario contains the location
        of an XProc script, as well as other transform parameters. For more information, see <xref
          href="sql-transformation.dita#sql-transformation"/>.</li>
      <li id="li_i5k_cgk_54b"><b>DITA-OT Scenarios</b> - This type of scenario provides the parameters for an Ant
        transformation that executes a DITA-OT build script. <ph keyref="product"/> includes a
        built-in version of Ant and a built-in version of DITA-OT, although you can also set other
        versions in the scenario. For more information, see <xref
          href="dita-ot-transformation.dita#dita-ot-transformation"/>.</li>
      <li id="li_j5k_cgk_54b"><uicontrol>ANT Scenarios</uicontrol> - This type of scenario contains the location of an
        Ant build script, as well as other transform parameters. For more information, see <xref
          href="ant-transformation.dita#ant-transformation"/>.</li>
    </ul>
    <p id="p_k5k_cgk_54b">
      <note id="note_l5k_cgk_54b">
        <p product="editor author developer" id="p_m5k_cgk_54b">Status messages generated during the transformation
          process are displayed in the <xref href="view-status-information.dita"
              ><uicontrol>Information</uicontrol> view</xref>.</p>
        <p product="editorEclipse authorEclipse developerEclipse" id="p_n5k_cgk_54b">Status messages generated during
          the transformation process are displayed in the <xref
            href="view-status-information.dita"><uicontrol>Console</uicontrol> view</xref>
          (the <xref href="preferences-view.dita#preferences-view/enable-oxygen-consoles"
              ><uicontrol>Enable Oxygen consoles</uicontrol> option</xref> must be selected in the
            <xref href="preferences-view.dita#preferences-view"
              ><uicontrol>View</uicontrol> preferences page</xref>).</p>
      </note>
    </p>
  </conbody>
</concept>
