<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE troubleshooting PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Troubleshooting//EN" "troubleshooting.dtd">
<troubleshooting id="transformation-takes-too-long">
  <title>DITA OT Transformation Takes a Long Time to Process</title>
  <troublebody>
    <condition id="problem">
      <title>Problem</title>
      <p>A DITA transformation takes an extremely long time to process (over an hour, for
        example).</p>
    </condition>
    <troubleSolution>
      <cause id="cause">
        <title>Cause</title>
        <p>Large delays in DITA OT processing are usually caused by intensive disk operations, CPU
          usage, or connections to remote websites. The DITA OT processing is very disk-intensive,
          each stage takes the entire content from the transformation temporary files folder, reads
          it, modifies it, and then writes it back.</p>
      </cause>
      <remedy id="solution">
        <title>Solution</title>
        <steps-informal>
          <p>There are several things you can try to troubleshoot this problem:<ul>
              <li>If you are using a shared or remote drive, it is recommended to specify a local
                drive for the output and temporary files directory (edit the transformation scenario
                and in the <uicontrol>Output</uicontrol> tab, select a local directory for
                  <uicontrol>Temporary files directory</uicontrol> and <uicontrol>Output
                  directory</uicontrol>).</li>
              <li>If you want to test if the publishing has a problem downloading remote resources,
                you could disable the network adapter on the computer and then try to publish. The
                purpose is to see if the publishing finishes without any reported error about
                obtaining a certain HTTP resource.</li>
              <li>Using DTDs instead of XML Schemas is faster. This is because of a default
                transformation parameter called <codeph>args.grammar.cache</codeph> that only works
                for DTD-based DITA topics.</li>
              <li>You can <xref href="performance-problems-large-documents.dita">increase the memory
                  available to <ph keyref="product"/></xref>. Sometimes, just increasing the amount
                of memory available to the DITA OT process may be enough to lower the time necessary
                for the publishing to run.</li>
              <li>You can enable some logging to help you determine which stage in the process is
                taking a long time. Edit the transformation scenario and in the
                  <uicontrol>Advanced</uicontrol> tab, enter <b>logger
                  org.apache.tools.ant.listener.ProfileLogger</b> in the <uicontrol>Additional
                  arguments</uicontrol> field. Then go to <menucascade>
                  <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>
                  <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
                  <uicontrol>DITA</uicontrol>
                  <uicontrol>Logging</uicontrol>
                </menucascade> and select <b>Always</b> for the <uicontrol>Show console
                  output</uicontrol> option.</li>
              <li>You could try disabling antivirus applications since the publishing process is
                very disk intensive and certain antivirus application might slow down the
                process.</li>
              <li>If the published DITA map is part of a larger DITA project with lots of maps and
                topics, references from topics in the current map to topics in other sub-projects
                might result in problems resolving those references. You could look in the output
                folder to see if the number of HTML documents match the number of DITA topics in
                your map.</li>
            </ul></p>
        </steps-informal>
      </remedy>
    </troubleSolution>
  </troublebody>
</troubleshooting>
