<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="transformation-output-formats">
  <title>Output Formats</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>Transforming Documents<indexterm>output formats</indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>Within the current version of <ph
        keyref="product"/> you can transform your XML
      documents to the following formats without having to exit from the application:</p>
    <ul>
      <li><b>PDF</b> - Adobe Portable Document Format (PDF) is a compact binary file format that can
        be viewed and printed by anyone, anywhere across a broad range of hardware and software
        using the free PDF Viewer from <xref
          href="http://www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/readstep.html" scope="external" format="html"
          >Adobe</xref>.</li>
      <li><b>PS</b> - PostScript is the leading printing technology from <xref
          href="http://www.adobe.com:80/products/postscript/main.html" scope="external"
          format="html"> Adobe </xref> for high-quality, best-in-class printing solutions ranging
        from desktop devices to the most advanced digital presses, platemakers, and large format
        image setters in the world. PostScript files can be viewed using viewers such as
        GhostScript, but are more commonly created as a prepress format.</li>
      <li><b>TXT</b> - Text files are Plain ASCII Text and can be opened in any text editor or word
        processor.</li>
      <li><b>XML</b> - XML stands for eXtensible Markup Language and is a <xref
          href="http://www.w3c.org/XML/" scope="external" format="html">W3C</xref> standard markup
        language, much like HTML, which was designed to describe data. XML tags are not predefined
        in XML. You must define your own tags. XML uses a Document Type Definition (DTD), an XML
        Schema or a Relax NG schema to describe the data. XML with a DTD, XML Schema or Relax NG
        schema is designed to be self-descriptive. XML is not a replacement for HTML. XML and HTML
        were designed with different goals:<ul>
          <li>XML was designed to describe data and to focus on what data is.</li>
          <li>HTML was designed to display data and to focus on how data looks.</li>
          <li>HTML is about displaying information, XML is about describing information.</li>
        </ul></li>
      <li><b>XHTML</b> - XHTML stands for eXtensible HyperText Markup Language, a <xref
          href="http://www.w3c.org/MarkUp/" scope="external" format="html">W3C</xref> standard.
        XHTML is aimed to replace HTML. While almost identical to HTML 4.01, XHTML is a stricter and
        cleaner version of HTML. XHTML is HTML defined as an XML application.</li>
    </ul>
    <p>For transformation to formats that are not listed above simply install the tool chain
      required to perform the transformation and process the xml files created with <ph
        keyref="product"/> in accordance with the
      processor instructions.</p>
    <p>All formatting during a transformation is provided under the control of an Extensible
      Stylesheet (XSLT). Specifying the appropriate XSLT enables transformation to the above formats
      and preparation of output files for specific user agent viewing applications, including:</p>
    <ul>
      <li><b>HTML</b> - HTML stands for Hyper Text Markup Language and is a <xref
          href="http://www.w3c.org/MarkUp/" scope="external" format="html">W3C Standard</xref> for
        the World Wide Web. HTML is a text file containing small markup tags. The markup tags tell
        the Web browser how to display the page. An HTML file must have an <filepath>htm</filepath>
        or <filepath>html</filepath> file extension. An HTML file can be created using a simple text
        editor.</li>
      <li><b>HTML Help</b> - <xref
        href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/ms670169%28v=vs.85%29.aspx"
          scope="external" format="html">Microsoft HTML Help</xref> is the standard help system for
        the Windows platform. Authors can use HTML Help to create online help for a software
        application or to create content for a multimedia title or Web site. Developers can use the
        HTML Help API to program a host application or hook up context-sensitive help to an
        application.</li>
      <li><b>JavaHelp</b> - JavaHelp software is a full-featured, platform-independent, extensible
        help system from <xref href="http://javahelp.java.net/" scope="external" format="html">Sun
          Microsystems/Oracle </xref> that enables developers and authors to incorporate online help
        in applets, components, applications, operating systems, and devices. JavaHelp is a free
        product and the binaries for JavaHelp can be redistributed.</li>
      <li><b>Eclipse Help</b> - Eclipse Help is the help system incorporated in the <xref
          href="http://www.eclipse.org/" scope="external" format="html">Eclipse platform</xref> that
        enables Eclipse plugin developers to incorporate online help in their plugins.</li>
    </ul>
    <p>Many other target formats are possible, these are the most popular. The basic condition for
      transformation to any format is that your source document is well-formed. Always, make sure
      that the XSL used for the transformation is the right one according to the desired output
      format and with the input source definition. For example, if you want to transform to HTML
      format using a DocBook html stylesheet, your source XML document should respect the DocBook
      DTD.</p>
    <p>An XSL stylesheet specifies the presentation of a class of XML documents by describing how an
      instance of the class is transformed into an output document by using special formatting
      vocabulary.</p>
    <p>XSL consists of three parts:</p>
    <ul>
      <li><b>XSL Transformations (XSLT)</b> - XSLT is a language for transforming XML
        documents.</li>
      <li><b>XML Path (XPath) Language</b> - XPath is an expression language used by XSLT to access
        or refer parts of an XML document. XPath is also used by the XML Linking specification.</li>
      <li><b>XSL Formatting Objects (XSL:FO)</b> - XSL:FO is an XML vocabulary for specifying
        formatting semantics.</li>
    </ul>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> supports XSLT/XPath
      version 1.0 using Saxon <ph
        conref="oxygenEntitiesDictionary.dita#OxygenEntities/saxon6FullVersion"/>, Xalan, Xsltproc,
      MSXML (3.0, 4.0, .NET) and XSLT/XPath 2.0 by using Saxon <ph
        conref="oxygenEntitiesDictionary.dita#OxygenEntities/saxon9FullVersion"/> HE, Saxon <ph
        conref="oxygenEntitiesDictionary.dita#OxygenEntities/saxon9FullVersion"/> PE, and Saxon <ph
        conref="oxygenEntitiesDictionary.dita#OxygenEntities/saxon9FullVersion"/> EE. <ph
        product="editor editorEclipse developer developerEclipse"><xref
          href="validating-xslt-stylesheets.dita">The validation</xref> is done also depending on
        the stylesheet version.</ph></p>
  </body>
</topic>