<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="transform-xquery-advanced-saxon-options">
  <title>Advanced Saxon HE/PE/EE Transform Options</title>
  <body>
    <p>The XQuery transformation scenario allows configuring advanced options specific for the Saxon
      HE (Home Edition) / PE (Professional Edition) / EE (Enterprise Edition) engine. <ph
        product="editor editorEclipse developer developerEclipse"> They are the same options as
          <xref href="preferences-xquery-saxon.dita">the ones set in the user preferences</xref> but
        they are configured as a specific set of transformation options for each transformation
        scenario. The default values of the options in the transformation scenario are the values
          <xref href="preferences-xquery-saxon.dita">set in the user preferences</xref>. </ph> The
      advanced options specific for Saxon HE / PE / EE are:</p>
    <ul>
      <li><uicontrol>Use a configuration file</uicontrol> - when enabled, the specified Saxon
        configuration file are used for determining the Saxon advanced options;</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Recoverable errors</uicontrol> - policy for handling recoverable errors in the
        stylesheet. Allows the user to choose how dynamic errors are handled. Either one of the
        following options can be selected:<ul>
          <li>recover silently;</li>
          <li>recover with warnings;</li>
          <li>signal the error and do not attempt recovery.</li>
        </ul></li>
      <li><uicontrol>Strip whitespaces</uicontrol> - can have one of the following values:<ul>
          <li><uicontrol>All</uicontrol> - strips all whitespace text nodes from source documents
            before any further processing, regardless of any <codeph>xml:space</codeph> attributes
            in the XML source document;</li>
          <li><uicontrol>Ignorable</uicontrol> - strips all ignorable whitespace text nodes from
            source documents before any further processing, regardless of any
              <codeph>xml:space</codeph> attributes in the XML source document. Whitespace text
            nodes are ignorable if they appear in elements defined in the DTD or schema as having
            element-only content;</li>
          <li><uicontrol>None</uicontrol> - strips no whitespace before further processing.</li>
        </ul></li>
      <li><uicontrol>Optimization level</uicontrol> - allows optimization to be suppressed in cases
        where reducing compile time is important, or where optimization gets in the way of
        debugging, or causes extension functions with side-effects to behave unpredictably;</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Allow calls on extension functions</uicontrol> - when enabled, calling external
        Java functions is allowed;</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Validation of the source file</uicontrol> - available only for Saxon EE. It can
        have three values:<ul>
          <li><uicontrol>Schema validation</uicontrol> - this mode requires an XML Schema and
            enables parsing the source documents with schema-validation enabled;</li>
          <li><uicontrol>Lax schema validation</uicontrol> - if an XML Schema is provided, this mode
            enables parsing the source documents with schema-validation enabled;</li>
          <li><uicontrol>Disable schema validation</uicontrol> - this mode means parsing the source
            documents with schema validation disabled.</li>
        </ul></li>
      <li id="xquery-saxon-ee-advanced-options-start"><uicontrol>Validation errors in the results
          tree treated as warnings</uicontrol> - available only for Saxon EE. If checked, all
        validation errors are treated as warnings, otherwise they are treated as fatal;</li>
      <li><ph conref="preferences-xslt-saxon8.dita#preferences-xslt-saxon8/generate_bytecode_option"
        />.</li>
      <li><uicontrol>Enable XQuery 3.0 support ("-qversion:(1.0|3.0)")</uicontrol> - if checked,
        Saxon EE runs the XQuery transformation with the XQuery 3.0 support;<note><ph
            id="xquery-support">In case the XQuery 3.0 support is active, the XQuery Update support
            is no longer available.</ph>
        </note></li>
      <li id="xquery-saxon-ee-advanced-options-end"><uicontrol>Backup files updated by XQuery
          ("-backup:(on|off)")</uicontrol> - if checked, backup versions for any XML files updated
        with XQuery Update are generated.</li>
    </ul>
  </body>
</topic>
