<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="tree-editor-perspective" >
    <title>Tree Editor</title>
    <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Tree Editor tool</indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
    <body>
        <p>The <uicontrol>Tree Editor</uicontrol> (<menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Tools</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Tree Editor</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>) is used for editing the content of a document displayed as an XML tree. The
      workspace offers the following functional areas:</p>
        <p>
            <ul>
                <li>
                    <p>Main menu - Provides access to all the features and functions available in
              <ph keyref="product"/>
            <uicontrol>Tree Editor</uicontrol>.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>Toolbar - Provides easy access to common and frequently used functions. Each
            icon is a button that acts as a shortcut to a related function.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>Editor panel - Easy editing of structured mark-up documents. Each token has
            an associated icon for easier visual identification.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>Message panel - Displays messages returned from user operations.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>Model view - Shows the detailed information about the attribute or element
            that you are working on.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>All Elements panel - Presents a list of all defined elements that can be
            inserted within your document.</p>
                </li>
            </ul>
        </p>
        <p>The tree editor does not offer entity support. Entities are not presented with a special
      type of node in the tree and new entity nodes cannot be inserted in the document.</p>
    </body>
</topic>