<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="unattended-installation">
    <title>Unattended Installation</title>
    <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>Installation<indexterm>unattended (Windows and Linux
                only)</indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
    <body>
        <p>You can run the installation in unattended mode by running the installer executable from
      the command line and passing the <parmname>-q</parmname> parameter.</p>
    <p>
      <codeblock><ph keyref="executableInstallWindows"/> -q </codeblock>
    </p>
        <p>In unattended mode, the installer does not overwrite files with the same name if a
      previous version of the <ph keyref="product"/> is installed in the same folder. The
        <parmname>-overwrite</parmname> parameter added after the <parmname>-q</parmname> parameter
      forces the overwriting of these files. </p>
    <p>To display a console for the unattended installation, add a <parmname>-console</parmname>
      parameter to the command line. </p>
        <p>
      <codeblock>start /wait <ph keyref="executableInstallWindows"/> -q -console</codeblock>
      <draft-comment author="Mark">Why does the console version of the command line start with start
        /wait. Is this required to make the console stay open so you can inspect the
        result?</draft-comment>
      <draft-comment author="Mark">Should we mention the 64-bit installer here?</draft-comment>
    </p>
      
<section>
      <title>Custom Settings in Unattended Installation</title>
      <p>An unattended installation applies the default installation settings. It is equivalent to
        running the regular installer and making no changes to options.  </p>
      <p>If you want to install <ph keyref="product"/> on a large number of computers, you may want
        to change the default values of some settings such as:</p>
      <ul id="ul_cgp_1ll_x4">
        <li>
          <p>the installation directory</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>whether a desktop icon or a quick launch shortcut is created</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>the file associations created in the operating system</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>the name of the program group on the Start menu</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>any other setting available through the installer</p>
        </li>
      </ul>
      <p>To change these defaults for an unattended install, create a settings file. To generate the
        settings file, run the installer in normal attended mode   and specify the exact options
        that you want for the unattended installation. When the installation is completed, look for
        a file called <filepath>response.varfile</filepath> in the
        <filepath>.install4j</filepath>folder inside the directory where <ph keyref="product"/> is
        installed. This file contains the setting you chose during the installtion. To apply these
        options for an unattended install, specify this file in the command line. For example copy
        the file in the same location as the installer program and use the following command: </p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>- on Windows: </dt>
          <dd>
            <p>
              <codeblock><ph keyref="executableInstallWindows"/> -q -varfile response.varfile</codeblock>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>- on Linux: </dt>
          <dd>
            <p>
              <codeblock><ph keyref="executableInstallLinux"/> -q -varfile response.varfile</codeblock>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>      

      <section id="privacy_options">
        <title>Privacy Options</title>
          <p>The following parameters control the privacy options:<table frame="all">
            <title>Privacy Options Parameters</title>
            <tgroup cols="3">
              <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
              <colspec colname="newCol2" colnum="2" colwidth="2.55*"/>
              <colspec colname="c2" colnum="3" colwidth="2.27*"/>
              <thead>
                <row>
                  <entry>Parameter name</entry>
                  <entry>Description</entry>
                  <entry>Values</entry>
                </row>
              </thead>
              <tbody>
                <row>
                  <entry>autoVersionChecking</entry>
                  <entry>Automatic version checking.</entry>
                  <entry><codeph>true</codeph> / <codeph>false</codeph>. Default
                    setting is <codeph>true</codeph>.</entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>reportProblem</entry>
                  <entry>Allows you to report a problem encountered while using <ph
                    keyref="product"/>.</entry>
                  <entry><codeph>true</codeph> / <codeph>false</codeph>. Default
                    setting is <codeph>true</codeph>.</entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>usageDataCollector</entry>
                  <entry>When set to <codeph>true</codeph>, you can choose whether <ph
                    keyref="product"/> sends anonymous information about how it is used.</entry>
                  <entry><codeph>true</codeph> / <codeph>false</codeph>. Default
                    setting is <codeph>true</codeph>.</entry>
                </row>
              </tbody>
            </tgroup>
          </table></p>
          <p>They can be set either in the <filepath>response.varfile</filepath> configuration
            file, or directly in the command line, like in the following example:</p>
          <dl>
            <dlentry>
              <dt>- on Windows: </dt>
              <dd>
                <p>
                  <codeblock><keyword keyref="executableInstallWindows"/> -q -VautoVersionChecking=false -VreportProblem=false -VusageDataCollector=false</codeblock>
                </p>
              </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
              <dt>- on Linux: </dt>
              <dd>
                <p>
                  <codeblock><keyword keyref="executableInstallLinux"/> -q -VautoVersionChecking=false -VreportProblem=false -VusageDataCollector=false</codeblock>
                </p>
              </dd>
            </dlentry>
          </dl>
        
      </section>

    </body>
    <related-links product="author developer editor">
        <link href="option-layers.dita#topic_x4m_2x1_12"/>
      </related-links>
</topic>