<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="uninstall-application">
  <title>Uninstalling</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Uninstalling Oxygen</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <section id="how_to_uninstall" product="author developer editor svnClient">
      <title>How to Uninstall <ph keyref="product"/></title>
      <p id="p_unn_bgk_54b">
        <note type="caution" id="note_vnn_bgk_54b">The following procedure will remove <ph keyref="product"/> from your
          system. <b>All data stored in the installation directory will be removed, including any
            customizations or any other data you have stored within that directory. Make a backup of
            any data you want to keep before proceeding.</b></note>
        <ol id="ol_wnn_bgk_54b">
          <li id="li_xnn_bgk_54b">Back up any data you want to keep from the <ph keyref="product"/> installation
            folder.</li>
          <li id="li_ynn_bgk_54b">Remove the application according to your operating system:<ul id="ul_znn_bgk_54b">
              <li id="li_a4n_bgk_54b"><b>Windows or Linux</b> - Use the appropriate uninstaller shortcut provided with
                your OS.</li>
              <li id="li_b4n_bgk_54b"><b>macOS</b> - Manually delete the installation folder and all its contents.</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li id="li_c4n_bgk_54b">If you want to remove the user preferences:<ul id="ul_d4n_bgk_54b">
              <li id="li_e4n_bgk_54b"><b>Windows</b> - Remove the directory: <ph product="editor"
                    ><filepath>%APPDATA%\com.oxygenxml</filepath></ph><ph product="author"
                    ><filepath>%APPDATA%\com.oxygenxml.author</filepath></ph><ph product="developer"
                    ><filepath>%APPDATA%\com.oxygenxml.developer</filepath></ph><ph
                  product="svnClient"><filepath>%APPDATA%\com.syncrosvnClient</filepath></ph>. Note
                that the <filepath>AppData</filepath> directory is hidden. If you cannot locate it,
                type <filepath>%APPDATA%</filepath> and press <codeph>ENTER</codeph> in the File
                Explorer address bar. (<filepath>%APPDATA%</filepath>expands to
                  <filepath>[user-home-dir]\AppData\Roaming</filepath>).</li>
              <li id="li_f4n_bgk_54b"><b>macOS</b> - Remove the directory: <ph product="editor"
                    ><filepath>Library/Preferences/com.oxygenxml</filepath></ph><ph product="author"
                    ><filepath>Library/Preferences/com.oxygenxml.author</filepath></ph><ph
                  product="developer"
                    ><filepath>Library/Preferences/com.oxygenxml.developer</filepath></ph><ph
                  product="svnClient">
                  <filepath>Library/Preferences/com.syncrosvnClient</filepath></ph> of the user home
                folder.</li>
              <li id="li_g4n_bgk_54b"><b>On Linux</b>, remove the directory: <ph product="editor"
                    ><filepath>.com.oxygenxml</filepath></ph><ph product="author"
                    ><filepath>.com.oxygenxml.author</filepath></ph><ph product="developer"
                    ><filepath>.com.oxygenxml.developer</filepath></ph><ph product="svnClient"
                    ><filepath>.com.syncrosvnClient</filepath></ph> from the user home
                directory.</li>
            </ul></li>
        </ol>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="unattended_uninstall" product="author developer editor svnClient">
      <title>Unattended Uninstall</title>
      <p id="p_h4n_bgk_54b">The unattended uninstall procedure is available only on Windows and Linux.</p>
      <p id="p_i4n_bgk_54b">Run the uninstaller executable from a command line with the <b>-q</b> parameter.<ul id="ul_j4n_bgk_54b">
          <li id="li_k4n_bgk_54b"><b>Windows</b> - The uninstaller executable is called
              <filepath>uninstall.exe</filepath> and is located in the <term>Oxygen</term>
            installation directory.</li>
          <li id="li_l4n_bgk_54b"><b>Linux</b> - The uninstaller executable is called <filepath>uninstall</filepath> and
            is located in the <term>Oxygen</term> installation directory.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section id="how_to_unistall" product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">
      <title>How to Uninstall <ph keyref="product"/></title>
      <p id="p_m4n_bgk_54b">
        <note type="caution" id="note_n4n_bgk_54b">The following procedure will remove <ph keyref="product"/> from your
          system. It will not remove the Eclipse platform. If you want to uninstall Eclipse, refer
          to its uninstall instructions.</note>
        <ol id="ol_o4n_bgk_54b">
          <li id="li_p4n_bgk_54b">Choose the menu option <menucascade>
              <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>About</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Installation Details</uicontrol>
            </menucascade>.</li>
          <li id="li_q4n_bgk_54b">Select <ph keyref="product"/> from the list of plugins.</li>
          <li id="li_r4n_bgk_54b">Choose <uicontrol>Uninstall</uicontrol>.</li>
          <li id="li_s4n_bgk_54b">Accept the Eclipse restart.</li>
          <li id="li_t4n_bgk_54b">If you want to remove the user preferences:<ul id="ul_u4n_bgk_54b">
              <li id="li_v4n_bgk_54b"><b>Windows</b> - Remove the directory: <ph
                  product="editorEclipse"><filepath>%APPDATA%\com.oxygenxml</filepath></ph><ph
                  product="authorEclipse"
                  ><filepath>%APPDATA%\com.oxygenxml.author</filepath></ph><ph
                  product="developerEclipse"
                  ><filepath>%APPDATA%\com.oxygenxml.developer</filepath></ph>. Note that the
                  <filepath>AppData</filepath> directory is hidden. If you cannot locate it, type
                  <filepath>%APPDATA%</filepath> and press <codeph>ENTER</codeph> in the File
                Explorer address bar. (<filepath>%APPDATA%</filepath>expands to
                  <filepath>[user-home-dir]\AppData\Roaming</filepath>).</li>
              <li id="li_w4n_bgk_54b"><b>macOS</b> - Remove the directory: <ph product="editorEclipse"
                    ><filepath>Library/Preferences/com.oxygenxml</filepath></ph><ph
                  product="authorEclipse"
                    ><filepath>Library/Preferences/com.oxygenxml.author</filepath></ph><ph
                  product="developerEclipse"
                    ><filepath>Library/Preferences/com.oxygenxml.developer</filepath></ph> of the
                user home folder.</li>
              <li id="li_x4n_bgk_54b"><b>On Linux</b>, remove the directory: <ph product="editorEclipse"
                    ><filepath>.com.oxygenxml</filepath></ph><ph product="authorEclipse"
                    ><filepath>.com.oxygenxml.author</filepath></ph><ph product="developerEclipse"
                    ><filepath>.com.oxygenxml.developer</filepath></ph> from the user home
                directory.</li>
            </ul></li>
        </ol>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
