<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="update-working-copy">
    <title>Update the Working Copy</title>
    <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>Synchronize with the SVN Repository<indexterm>update the working
          copy</indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
    <body>
        <p>While you are working on a project, other members of your team may be committing changes
            to the project repository. To get these changes, you have to <i>update</i> your working
            copy. Updating may be done on single files, a set of selected files, or recursively on
            entire directory hierarchies. The update operation can be performed from <xref
                href="working-copy-view.dita"><uicontrol>Working Copy</uicontrol> view</xref>. It
            updates the selected resources to the last synchronized revision (if remote information
            is available) or to the <i>HEAD</i> revision of the repository.</p>
        <p>There are three different kinds of incoming changes:</p>
        <ul>
            <li><i>Non-conflicting</i> - A non-conflicting change occurs when a file has been
                changed remotely but has not been modified locally.</li>
            <li><i>Conflicting, but auto-mergeable</i> - An auto-mergeable conflicting change occurs
                when a text file has been changed both remotely and locally (i.e. has non-committed
                local changes) but the changes are on different lines of text. Not applicable to
                binary resources (for example multimedia files, PDFs, executable program files)</li>
            <li><i>Conflicting</i> - A conflicting change occurs when one or more of the same lines
                of a text file have been changed both remotely and locally.</li>
        </ul>
        <p>If the resource contains only incoming changes or the outgoing changes do not intersect
            with incoming ones then the update will end normally and the Subversion system will
            merge incoming changes into the local file. In the case of a conflicting situation the
            update will have as result a file with conflict status.</p>
      <p>The <ph keyref="product"/> allows you to update your working copy files to a specific
      revision, not only the most recent one. This can be done by using the <uicontrol>Update to
        revision/depth</uicontrol> action from the <uicontrol>Working Copy</uicontrol> view
        (<uicontrol>All Files</uicontrol> view mode) or the <uicontrol>Update to
        revision</uicontrol> action from the <xref href="history-view.dita"
          ><uicontrol>History</uicontrol> view</xref> contextual menu.</p>
        <p>If you select multiple files and folders and then you perform an
                <uicontrol>Update</uicontrol> operation, all of those files and folders are updated
            one by one. The Subversion client makes sure that all files and folders belonging to the
            same repository are updated to the exact same revision, even if between those updates
            another commit occurred.</p>
        <p>When the update fails with a message saying that there is already a local file with the
            same name Subversion tried to check out a newly versioned file, and found that an
            unversioned file with the same name already exists in your working folder. Subversion
            will never overwrite an unversioned file unless you specifically do this with an
                <uicontrol>Override and update</uicontrol> action. If you get this error message,
            the solution is simply to rename the local unversioned file. After completing the
            update, you can check whether the renamed file is still needed.</p>
    </body>
</topic>