<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="updating_the_content_fusion_plugin">
  <title>Updating the Connector Add-on</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Updating the add-on</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Updating Oxygen Content Fusion Connector add-on</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_bjt_dgk_54b">The <b>Oxygen Content Fusion Connector</b> add-on is updated periodically to enhance its
      functionality and solve issues. There are several ways to update the add-on and there is an
      option that you can select to have <term>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</term> automatically check
      for add-on updates at startup.</p>
    <section id="how_to_enable_automatic_addon_update_checking">
      <title>How to Enable Automatic Add-on Update Checking</title>
      <p id="p_cjt_dgk_54b">To instruct <term>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</term> to automatically check for add-on updates
        when the application is started, go to <menucascade>
          <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Add-ons</uicontrol>
        </menucascade> and select the <uicontrol>Enable automatic updates checking</uicontrol>
        option.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="how_to_update_the_content_fusion_addon">
      <title>How to Update the Content Fusion Add-on</title>
      <p id="p_djt_dgk_54b">There are several ways to update the <b>Oxygen Content Fusion Connector</b> add-on:</p>
      <p id="p_ejt_dgk_54b">
        <dl id="dl_fjt_dgk_54b">
          <dlentry id="dlentry_gjt_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Automatic Add-on Update Checking Feature</dt>
            <dd>If you have enabled the <xref
                href="#updating_the_content_fusion_plugin/how_to_enable_automatic_addon_update_checking"
                format="dita">automatic add-on update checking feature</xref>, whenever the add-on
              is updated, you will receive a notification the next time you start <term>Oxygen XML
                Editor/Author</term> that an update is available. To update the add-on, follow these steps:<ol id="ol_hjt_dgk_54b">
                <li id="li_ijt_dgk_54b">Click <uicontrol>Review updates</uicontrol> in the pop-up notification.</li>
                <li id="li_jjt_dgk_54b">Make sure the <b>Oxygen Content Fusion Connector</b> add-on is selected in the
                  next dialog box and click <uicontrol>Update</uicontrol>.</li>
                <li id="li_kjt_dgk_54b">Select the <b>I accept all terms of the end user license agreement</b> option
                  and click <uicontrol>Finish</uicontrol>.</li>
                <li id="li_ljt_dgk_54b">Restart <term>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</term>.</li>
              </ol></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_mjt_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Manually Check for Add-ons Updates</dt>
            <dd>To manually check for updates, go to <menucascade>
                <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>Check for add-ons updates</uicontrol>
              </menucascade>. If there is an update available for the add-on, this dialog box
              displays <uicontrol>Update available</uicontrol> in the <uicontrol>Status</uicontrol>
              column. To update the add-on, follow these steps:<ol id="ol_njt_dgk_54b">
                <li id="li_ojt_dgk_54b">Make sure the <b>Oxygen Content Fusion Connector</b> add-on is selected and
                  click <uicontrol>Update</uicontrol>.</li>
                <li id="li_pjt_dgk_54b">Select the <b>I accept all terms of the end user license agreement</b> option
                  and click <uicontrol>Finish</uicontrol>.</li>
                <li id="li_qjt_dgk_54b">Restart <term>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</term>.</li>
              </ol></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_rjt_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Manage Add-ons Dialog Box</dt>
            <dd>You can also go to <menucascade>
                <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>Manage add-ons</uicontrol>
              </menucascade> to check for updates. If there is an update available for the add-on,
              this dialog box displays <uicontrol>Update available</uicontrol> in the
                <uicontrol>Status</uicontrol> column. To update the add-on, follow these steps:<ol id="ol_sjt_dgk_54b">
                <li id="li_tjt_dgk_54b">Make sure the <b>Oxygen Content Fusion Connector</b> add-on is selected and
                  click <uicontrol>Update</uicontrol>.</li>
                <li id="li_ujt_dgk_54b">Select the <b>I accept all terms of the end user license agreement</b> option
                  and click <uicontrol>Finish</uicontrol>.</li>
                <li id="li_vjt_dgk_54b">Restart <term>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</term>.</li>
              </ol></dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
