<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="Update_procedure">
  <title>Upgrading</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Upgrading Web Author</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_vlq_dgk_54b">Every new version of <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> comes with a lot of new features,
      improvements, bug fixes, and security upgrades. Therefore, you should always use the latest
      version. However, you may want to perform some internal tests before allowing the users to use
      the new features. For example, you may want to disable some of the new features to keep the UI
      simple or to tweak some of the settings.</p>
    <p id="p_wlq_dgk_54b">It is recommended that you make a separate deployment of the new version on a different VM,
      perform some acceptance tests, and then switch all of your users to the new deployment.</p>
    <p id="p_xlq_dgk_54b">To upgrade <ph keyref="webappProduct"/>, follow these steps:</p>
    <ol id="ol_tr4_wlz_hw">
      <li id="li_ylq_dgk_54b">Deploy the new version of <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> on a separate virtual machine and
        connect it to your existing license server. The two deployments will work in parallel, both
        using the same license pool.</li>
      <li id="li_zlq_dgk_54b">It might be necessary to update your license key. If you receive an error message
        regarding the license key version, follow <xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-editor/topics/replace-floating-license.html"
          format="html" scope="external">this procedure</xref>. Your existing <ph
          keyref="webappProduct"/> deployment will continue to work with a license for the newer
        version.</li>
      <li id="li_amq_dgk_54b">Tweak the settings for the new version to suit your needs.</li>
      <li id="li_bmq_dgk_54b">Switch all of the users to the new version. This can be achieved either by changing the
        DNS entry or configuring the <xref href="webapp-loadbalancing.dita#webapp-loadbalancing"
          >Load Balancer</xref> to use the new deployment.</li>
    </ol>
  </body>
</topic>
