<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="upgrading-standalone-application" >
    <title>Upgrading <ph keyref="product"/> on Windows/Linux</title>
    <body>
    <section id="what_is_preserved_during_an_upgrade">
      <title>What is Preserved During an Upgrade?</title>
      <p>When you install a new version of <ph keyref="product"/>, some data is preserved and some
        is overwritten. If there is a previous version of <ph keyref="product"/> already installed
        on your computer, it can coexist with the new one, which means you do not have to uninstall
        it. </p>
      <p>If you install over a previously installed version:<ul id="ul_qmm_1jx_x4">
          <li>All the files from its install directory will be removed, including any modification
            in <xref keyref="glossentry_framework"><term>framework</term></xref> files, XSLT
            stylesheets, <xref keyref="glossentry_xml-catalog"><term>XML Catalogs</term></xref>, and
            templates. </li>
          <li>All global user preferences are preserved in the new version.</li>
          <li>All project preferences will be preserved in their project files. </li>
          <li>Any custom <xref keyref="glossentry_framework"><term>frameworks</term></xref> that
            were stored outside the installation directory (as configured in <xref
              href="framework-location.dita#framework-location"><menucascade>
                <uicontrol>Document type associations</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>Locations</uicontrol>
              </menucascade></xref>) will be preserved and will be found by the new installation.
          </li>
        </ul></p>
      <p>If you install in a new directory:<ul id="ul_g33_wkx_x4">
          <li>All the files from the old install directory will be preserved, including any
            modification in <xref keyref="glossentry_framework"><term>framework</term></xref> files,
            XSLT stylesheets, <xref keyref="glossentry_xml-catalog"><term>XML
            Catalogs</term></xref>, and templates. However, these modifications will not be
            automatically imported into the new installation.</li>
          <li>All global user preferences are preserved in the new version.</li>
          <li>All project preferences will be preserved in their project files. </li>
          <li>Any custom <xref keyref="glossentry_framework"><term>frameworks</term></xref> that
            were stored outside the installation directory (as configured in <xref
              href="framework-location.dita#framework-location"><menucascade>
                <uicontrol>Document type associations</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>Locations</uicontrol>
              </menucascade></xref>) will be preserved and will be found by the new
            installation.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section id="how_to_upgrade_on_windows_or_linux">
      <title>How to Upgrade <ph keyref="product"/> on Windows or Linux</title>
      <p>
        <ol>
          <li product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"><xref
              href="uninstall-application.dita#uninstall-application/how_to_unistall">Uninstall the
              current version of <ph keyref="product"/></xref>.</li>
          <li product="author developer editor svnClient">Upgrading to a new version might require a
            new license key. To check if your license key is compatible with the new version, select <menucascade>
              <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Check for New Version</uicontrol>
            </menucascade>. Note that the application needs an Internet connection to check the
            license compatibility. </li>
          <li>Download and install the new version according to the instructions for your platform
            and the type of installer you selected. </li>
          <li product="author developer editor svnClient">If you installed from an archive (as
            opposed to an executable installer) you may have to update any shortcuts you have
            created or modify the system PATH to point to the new installation folder.</li>
          <li>Restart <ph keyref="product"/>. </li>
          <li product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"> If you are upgrading from a
            minor version to a major version (for example, from 16.1 to 17.0) and you did not
            purchase a Maintenance Pack that covers the new major version, you will need to enter a
            new license for the new version into the registration dialog box that is displayed when
            the plugin is started.</li>
          <li product="author developer editor svnClient">If you require a new license for your
            upgrade, install it now according to the procedure for your platform and the type of
            installer you selected.</li>
        </ol>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
