<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="using-retina-hidpi-images">
  <title><?oxy_comment_start author="steven_higgs" timestamp="20150622T160239+0300" comment="Perhaps this should be split into two topics.  The second would be &quot;Adding Retina/HiDPI Icons in a Framework&quot; (the section at the end of this topic). That topic would go in the customizing frameworks section while the rest of this topic should go in a different section entirely."?>Using
    Retina/HiDPI Images in Author Mode</title>
  <?oxy_comment_end?>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> provides support for Retina and HiDPI images through simple naming
      conventions. The higher resolution images are stored in the same images folder as the normal
      resolution images and they are identified by a scaling factor that is included in the name of
      the image files. For instance, images with a Retina scaling factor of 2 will include
          <i><filepath>@2x</filepath></i> in the name (for example,
        <filepath>myImage@2x.png</filepath>). </p>
    <p>You can reference an image to style an element in a CSS by using the <codeph>url</codeph>
      function in the <codeph>content</codeph> property, as in the following example:</p>
    <pre outputclass="language-css">listItem:before{
   content: url('../img/myImage.png');
}</pre>
    <p>This would place the image that is loaded from the <filepath>myImage.png</filepath> file just
      before the <codeph>listItem</codeph> element. However, if you are using a Retina display (on a
      Mac), the icon looks a bit blurry as it automatically gets scaled, or if you are using an
      HiDPI display (on a Windows-based PC), the icon remains at the original size, thus it will
      look very small. To solve this rendering problem, you need to be able to reference both a
        <i>normal</i> DPI image and a <i>high</i> DPI image. However, referencing both of them from
      the CSS is not practical, as there is no standard way of doing this.</p>
    <p>Starting with version 17, <ph keyref="product"/> interprets the argument of the
        <codeph>url</codeph> function as key rather than a fixed URL. Therefore, when running on a
      system with a Retina or HiDPI display, <ph keyref="product"/> will first try to find the image
      file that corresponds to the retina scaling factor. For instance, using the previous example,
        <ph keyref="product"/> would first try to find <filepath>myImage@2x.png</filepath>. If this
      file is not found, it defaults back to the <i>normal</i> resolution image file
        (<filepath>myImage.png</filepath>).</p>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> also supports dark color themes. This means that the background of the
      editor area can be of a dark color and the foreground a lighter color. On a dark background,
      you may find it useful to invert the colors of images. Again, this can be done with simple
      naming conventions. If an image designed for a dark background is not found, the <i>normal</i>
      image is used.</p>
    <section id="retina-naming-convention-section">
      <title>Retina/HiDPI Naming Convention</title>
      <p>Refer to the following table for examples of the Retina/HiDPI image naming convention that
        is used in <ph keyref="product"/>:</p>
      <table id="table_myp_5sh_sr">
        <tgroup cols="4">
          <colspec colnum="1" colname="col1" colsep="1" rowsep="1"/>
          <colspec colnum="2" colname="col2" colsep="1" rowsep="1"/>
          <colspec colnum="3" colname="col3" colsep="1" rowsep="1"/>
          <colspec colnum="4" colname="col4" colsep="1" rowsep="1"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Color Theme</entry>
              <entry>Referred Image File</entry>
              <entry>Double Density Image File</entry>
              <entry>Triple Density Image File</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>normal</entry>
              <entry>../img/myImage.png</entry>
              <entry>../img/myImage@2x.png</entry>
              <entry>../img/myImage@3x.png</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>dark</entry>
              <entry>../img/myImage_dark.png</entry>
              <entry>../img/myImage_dark@2x.png</entry>
              <entry>../img/myImage_dark@3x.png</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
    <section id="adding-retina-icons-section">
      <title>Adding Retina/HiDPI Icons in a Framework</title>
      <p>Higher resolution icons can also be included in customized frameworks for rendering them in
        a Retina or HiDPI display. The icons can be referenced directly from the Document Type
        customization (from the <xref href="../topics/the-action-dialog.dita#the-action-dialog"
            ><uicontrol>Action</uicontrol> dialog box</xref>) or from an API (<xref
          href="configuring-xml-node-renderer-customizer.dita#configuring-xml-node-renderer-customizer"
            ><apiname>ro.sync.exml.workspace.api.node.customizer.XMLNodeRendererCustomizer</apiname></xref>).</p>
      <p>As with any image, the higher resolution icons are stored in the same images folder as the
        normal resolution images and they are identified by a scaling factor that is included in the
        name of the image files. For instance, icons with a Retina scaling factor of 2 will include
            <i><filepath>@2x</filepath></i> in the name (for example,
          <filepath>myIcon@2x.png</filepath>).</p>
      <p>Developers should not specify the path of the alternate icons
          (<i><filepath>@2x</filepath></i> or <i><filepath>@3x</filepath></i>) in the <xref
          href="../topics/the-action-dialog.dita#the-action-dialog"><uicontrol>Action</uicontrol>
          dialog box</xref> or the <xref
          href="configuring-xml-node-renderer-customizer.dita#configuring-xml-node-renderer-customizer"
            ><apiname>XMLNodeRendererCustomizer</apiname> API</xref>. When using a Retina or HiDPI
        display, <ph keyref="product"/> automatically searches the folder of the <i>normal</i> icon
        for a corresponding image file with a Retina scaling factor in the name. If the higher
        resolution icon file does not exist, the <i>normal</i> icon is scaled and used instead. </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
