<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="using_open_ai_models">
    <title>Using the Open AI Models</title>
    <body>
    <p><xref href="https://openai.com/" format="html" scope="external"><term>Open AI
        GPT3</term></xref> is the largest commercial AI model available to integrators. It was
      trained on a huge corpus of text. </p>
    <p><b>Advantages</b> (of the Open AI GPT-3 Language Model):</p>
    <ul id="ol_qdk_gkq_5sb">
      <li>Semantic awareness</li>
      <li>Extensible</li>
      <li>‘Creative’</li>
    </ul>
    <p><b>Disadvantages</b>:<ul id="ol_cms_hkq_5sb">
        <li>Slow due to network latency since content is sent to <tm tmtype="reg">Open AI</tm>
            servers.<note id="note_syv_xkq_5sb" type="important"> Check the license terms of the
            Open AI platform to make sure your company agrees with sending parts of the edited
            document to the Open AI.</note></li>
        <li>Not always factually correct since it uses probabilistic responses.<note
            id="note_zqd_kkq_5sb" type="important">Always check the generated content. It behaves
            more like a brain than a database.</note></li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>To use the GTP-3 language models:<ol id="ol_w2r_bwx_wwb">
        <li>Go in the <uicontrol>Oxygen Smart Autocomplete</uicontrol> preferences page and setup
          the following areas: <ul id="ul_up2_bwx_wwb">
            <li><uicontrol>API Key</uicontrol> - This field allows you to configure the Open AI API
              Key. You can <xref href="https://platform.openai.com/overview" format="html"
                scope="external">register</xref> to obtain a free API key.</li>
            <li><uicontrol>Model</uicontrol> - This drop-down allows you to select the Open AI model
              you intend to use for providing completions. It can be one of the base models. The
              default and recommended selection is <codeph>gpt-3.5-turbo</codeph>.<note
                id="note_j4n_kvp_5sb">The base models are named according to the following
                conventions (they contain one of the following keywords): <codeph>gpt</codeph>
                (signals the most capable model), <codeph>davinci</codeph>, <codeph>curie</codeph>,
                  <codeph>babbage</codeph>, and <codeph>ada</codeph>.</note></li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Go in the <uicontrol>Smart Autocomplete</uicontrol> view and choose <uicontrol>Open
            AI</uicontrol> for the <uicontrol>Engine</uicontrol>. The interface then displays the
          following features: <p>
            <dl id="dl_lqz_324_ywb">
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Continue writing</dt>
                <dd>Continue your current paragraph by generating a possible continuation. </dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Improve Readability</dt>
                <dd>Improve readability for the current selected DITA XML content. </dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Create Topic</dt>
                <dd>Create a DITA Topic starting from a general idea like for example
                    <codeph>Uninstalling an application named Oxygen XML Editor on
                  Linux.</codeph></dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Short Description</dt>
                <dd>Create and insert a short description in the current DITA XML topic by
                  summarizing the current selected content.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Index Terms</dt>
                <dd>Create and insert in the DITA topic's prolog a maximum of 10 index terms
                  derrived from the current selected content.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Translate to French</dt>
                <dd>Translate the current selected content to French and replace the content with
                  the French equivalent.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Readability Report</dt>
                <dd>Generate a Flesch-Kincaid readability and a Flesch–Kincaid grade level analysis
                  from the current selected content.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Summarize</dt>
                <dd>Display a summary of the selected text.</dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl>
          </p>
        </li>
      </ol></p>
  </body>
</topic>
