<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="vale-linter-addon">
  <title>Vale Linter for Markdown and HTML Validation Add-on</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Add-ons<indexterm>Vale linter</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Markdown grammar checker</indexterm>
        <indexterm>HTML grammar checker</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_l2h_dgk_54b">The Vale Validation add-on runs the <xref href="https://docs.errata.ai/vale/about"
        format="html" scope="external">Vale linter</xref> over the currently edited file and
      presents the validation errors in the results area at the bottom of the application. A
        <term>Linter</term> is a tool that automatically verifies specific rules against your code
      or documentation. This is useful for enforcing a style guide or for catching commonly mistaken
      branding issues.</p>
    <p id="p_m2h_dgk_54b">To add install this plugin to <ph keyref="product"/>, follow this procedure:</p>
    <ol id="ol_wjr_sjc_mnb">
      <li id="li_n2h_dgk_54b">Go to <menucascade>
          <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Install new add-ons</uicontrol>
        </menucascade> to open an add-on selection dialog box. </li>
      <li id="li_o2h_dgk_54b">Enter or paste <b>https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Addons/default/updateSite.xml</b> in
        the <uicontrol>Show add-ons from</uicontrol> field or select it from the drop-down
        menu.</li>
      <li id="li_p2h_dgk_54b">Select the <b>Vale Linter for Markdown and HTML Validation</b> add-on
        and click <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol>. </li>
      <li id="li_q2h_dgk_54b">Read the end-user license agreement. Then select the <uicontrol>I accept all terms of
        the end-user license agreement</uicontrol> option and click <uicontrol>Finish</uicontrol>.</li>
      <li id="li_r2h_dgk_54b">Restart the application.</li>
    </ol>
    <section id="section_ym2_vjc_mnb">
      <title>Setup the Oxygen Vale Validation</title>
      <p id="p_s2h_dgk_54b">To set up the Vale validation, follow this procedure:<ol id="ol_br5_xr5_pnb">
          <li id="li_t2h_dgk_54b">
            <p id="p_u2h_dgk_54b">Download and unzip the proper <xref
                href="https://github.com/errata-ai/vale/releases" format="html" scope="external"
                >Vale executable</xref> for your OS. On Linux and macOS, you must give executable
              permission to the Vale executable. You can do this by opening a console in the Vale
              directory and running:</p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-ini" id="codeblock_v2h_dgk_54b">chmod u+x vale</codeblock>
          </li>
          <li id="li_w2h_dgk_54b">Go to <menucascade>
              <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Plugins</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Oxygen Vale Validation</uicontrol>
            </menucascade> and specify the path to the previously downloaded Vale executable.</li>
          <li id="vale-ini-setup">In the same preferences page, you can also specify a path to a
              <xref href="https://docs.errata.ai/vale/config" format="html" scope="external">Vale
              configuration file (<filepath>.vale.ini</filepath>)</xref>. Vale <xref
              href="https://docs.errata.ai/vale/config#search-process" format="html"
              scope="external">automatically detects this file</xref> by looking 6 levels up in the
            current file's ancestor directories, but you can also impose one.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_ov1_kjc_mnb">
      <title>Vale Styles</title>
      <p id="p_x2h_dgk_54b">Vale uses collections of individual <xref href="http://yaml.org" format="html"
          scope="external">YAML</xref> files (or "rules") to enforce particular writing constructs.
        These collections are referred to as <i>styles</i> and are organized in a nested folder
        structure at a user-specified location. The <xref href="https://docs.errata.ai/vale/config"
          format="html" scope="external"><filepath>.vale.ini</filepath></xref> file is where you
        will control most of Vale's behavior, including which files to lint and how to lint them.
        Vale <xref href="https://docs.errata.ai/vale/config#search-process" format="html"
          scope="external">automatically detects <filepath>.vale.ini</filepath></xref>, but you can
        also specify the path to <filepath>.vale.ini</filepath> from the plugin's preferences page (<menucascade>
          <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Plugins</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Oxygen Vale Validation</uicontrol>
        </menucascade>).</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_pzq_fs5_pnb">
      <title>Third-party Styles</title>
      <p id="p_y2h_dgk_54b">Vale has a growing selection of pre-made styles available for download from its <xref
          href="https://github.com/errata-ai/styles#available-styles" format="html" scope="external"
          >style library</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_ql2_bkc_mnb">
      <title>Validation</title>
      <p id="p_z2h_dgk_54b">After setting up the Vale executable, creating or downloading Vale styles, and specifying
        the path to <filepath>.vale.ini</filepath>, the add-on will intercept the <xref
          href="automatic-validation.dita"/> and <xref
          href="validation-actions-in-user-interface.dita">Manual Validation</xref> and contribute
        errors and warning obtained by running Vale validation over the current file. The errors and
        warnings are highlighted in the editor.<note id="note_afh_dgk_54b">Although Vale supports <xref
            href="https://docs.errata.ai/vale/scoping#formats" format="html" scope="external"
            >multiple file formats</xref>, the Vale Validation add-on currently only supports <xref
            href="https://docs.errata.ai/vale/scoping#markdown" format="html" scope="external"
            >Markdown (*.md files)</xref> and <xref href="https://docs.errata.ai/vale/scoping#html"
            format="html" scope="external">HTML files</xref>.</note></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
