<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="validate-xml-with-sch">
  <title>Presenting Schematron Validation Issues</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Schematron<indexterm>Validation<indexterm>Against
            Schematron</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Validating XML Documents<indexterm>Against Schematron</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_tvg_cgk_54b">The possible issues that might occur during the validation process when validating XML
      documents against Schematron are presented with colored underlines in the editing pane,
      colored markers in the right vertical stripe, and details about the issues are presented in
      the <ph product="author developer editor"><uicontrol>Errors</uicontrol> panel</ph><ph
        product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"><uicontrol>Problems</uicontrol>
        tab</ph> at the bottom area of the <ph keyref="product"/> window. Each error is flagged with
      a severity level that can be: <i>warning</i>, <i>error</i>, <i>fatal</i> or <i>info</i>.</p>
    <p id="p_uvg_cgk_54b">To set a severity level, <ph keyref="product"/> looks for the following information:<ul id="ul_vvg_cgk_54b">
        <li id="li_wvg_cgk_54b">The <b>role</b> attribute, which can have one of the following values:<ul id="ul_xvg_cgk_54b">
            <li id="li_yvg_cgk_54b">WARN or <b>warning</b> - Sets the severity level to
                <i>warning</i>. By default, underlined with a yellow squiggly line in the editing
              pane and a yellow marker in the right vertical stripe.</li>
            <li id="li_zvg_cgk_54b"><b>error</b> - Sets the severity level to <i>error</i>. By default, underlined with
              a red squiggly line in the editing pane and a red marker in the right vertical stripe. </li>
            <li id="li_awg_cgk_54b"><b>fatal</b> - Sets the severity level to <i>fatal</i>. By default, underlined with
              a red squiggly line in the editing pane and a red marker in the right vertical
              stripe.</li>
            <li id="li_bwg_cgk_54b"><b>info</b> or <b>information</b> - Sets the severity level to <i>information</i>.
              By default, underlined with a blue squiggly line in the editing pane and a blue marker
              in the right vertical stripe.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li id="li_cwg_cgk_54b">The start of the message, after trimming leading white-spaces. <ph keyref="product"/>
          looks to match the following exact string of characters (case-sensitive):<ul id="ul_dwg_cgk_54b">
            <li id="li_ewg_cgk_54b"><b>Warning:</b> - Sets the severity level to <i>warning</i>. By default, underlined
              with a yellow squiggly line in the editing pane and a yellow marker in the right
              vertical stripe.</li>
            <li id="li_fwg_cgk_54b"><b>Error:</b> - Sets the severity level to <i>error</i>. By default, underlined with
              a red squiggly line in the editing pane and a red marker in the right vertical stripe. </li>
            <li id="li_gwg_cgk_54b"><b>Fatal:</b> - Sets the severity level to <i>fatal</i>. By default, underlined with
              a red squiggly line in the editing pane and a red marker in the right vertical stripe. </li>
            <li id="li_hwg_cgk_54b"><b>Info:</b> - Sets the severity level to <i>info</i>. By default, underlined with a
              blue squiggly line in the editing pane and a blue marker in the right vertical
              stripe.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li id="li_iwg_cgk_54b">If none of the previous rules match, <ph keyref="product"/> sets the severity level to
            <i>error</i>. By default, underlined with a red squiggly line in the editing pane and a
          red marker in the right vertical stripe.</li>
      </ul><note type="tip" product="author developer editor" id="note_jwg_cgk_54b"><ph> You can configure the color for
          each type in the <xref href="preferences-editor-document-checking.dita"
              ><uicontrol>Document Checking</uicontrol> preferences page</xref>.</ph></note></p>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link
        href="validating-XML-documents-against-schema.dita#validating-XML-documents-against-schema"/>
      <link href="validation-scenario.dita#validation-scenario">
        <linktext>Validation Scenario</linktext>
      </link>
      <link href="associate-schema-to-document.dita#associate-schema-to-document"/>
      <link href="author-validation-error-presenting.dita#author-validation-error-presenting"
        product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse"/>
      <link href="marking-validation-errors.dita#marking-validation-errors"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
