<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="validating-XML-documents">
  <title>Validating XML Documents</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>XML documents<indexterm>Validation</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Validating XML Documents</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>The W3C XML specification states that a program should not continue to process an XML
      document if it finds a validation error. The reason is that XML software should be easy to
      write and all XML documents should be compatible. With HTML, for example, it is possible to
      create documents with lots of errors (for instance, when you forget an end tag). One of the
      main reasons that various HTML browsers have performance and compatibility problems is that
      they have different methods of figuring out how to render a document when an HTML error is
      encountered. Using XML helps to eliminate such problems.</p>
    <p>Even when creating XML documents, errors are easily introduced. When working with large
      projects or a large number of files, the probability that errors will occur is even greater.
      Preventing and solving errors in your projects can be time consuming and frustrating.
      Fortunately, <ph keyref="product"/> provides validation functions that allow you to easily
      identify errors and their location.</p>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist><title>Related Information:</title><link href="xml-contextual-editing.dita" product="author developer editor"/></linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
