<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept id="validation-scenario">
  <title>Validation Scenarios</title>
  <conbody>
    <p>A complex XML document is split in smaller interrelated modules. These modules do not make
      much sense individually and cannot be validated in isolation due to interdependencies with
      other modules. <ph keyref="product"/> validates the main module of the document when an
      imported module is checked for errors.</p>
    <p>A typical example is the chunking of a DocBook XSL stylesheet that has
        <filepath>chunk.xsl</filepath> as the main module and <filepath>param.xsl</filepath>,
        <filepath>chunk-common.xsl</filepath>, and <filepath>chunk-code.xsl</filepath> as imported
      modules. <filepath>param.xsl</filepath> only defines XSLT parameters. The module
        <filepath>chunk-common.xsl</filepath> defines an XSLT template with the name
        <codeph>chunk</codeph>. <filepath>Chunk-code.xsl</filepath> calls this template. The
      parameters defined in <filepath>param.xsl</filepath> are used in the other modules without
      being redefined.</p>
    <p>Validating <filepath>chunk-code.xsl</filepath> as an individual XSLT stylesheet generates
      misleading errors regarding parameters and templates that are used but undefined. These errors
      are only caused by ignoring the context in which this module is used in real XSLT
      transformations and in which it is validated. To validate such a module, define a validation
      scenario to set the main module of the stylesheet and the validation engine used to find the
      errors. Usually this engine applies the transformation during the validation process to detect
      the errors that the transformation generates.</p>
    <p>You can validate a stylesheet with several engines to make sure that you can use it in
      various environments and have the same results. For example, an XSLT stylesheet may be applied
      with Saxon 6.5, Xalan, and MSXML 4.0 engines in different production systems.</p>
    <p>Other examples of documents that can benefit from a validation scenario include:<ul>
        <li>A complex XQuery file with a main module that imports modules developed independently
          but validated in the context of the main module of the query. In an XQuery validation
          scenario, the default validator of <ph keyref="product"/> (Saxon 9) or any connection to a
          database that supports validation (Berkeley DB XML Database, eXist XML Database, MarkLogic
          version 5 or newer) can be set as a validation engine.</li>
        <li>An XML document in which the <xref keyref="glossentry_master-file"><term>master
              file</term></xref> includes smaller fragment files using XML entity references.<note
            conkeyref="reusables-editing-documents/validation-note"/></li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>For more information about how to use a validation scenario in <ph keyref="product"/>, watch
      our video demonstration:</p>
    <p><object width="450" height="250" data="https://www.youtube.com/embed/9RMPcckVMJA"
        outputclass="iframe">
        <param name="allowfullscreen" value="true"/>
      </object></p>
  </conbody>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link
        href="validating-XML-documents-against-schema.dita#validating-XML-documents-against-schema"/>
      <link href="author-validation-error-presenting.dita#author-validation-error-presenting"
        product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse"/>
      <link href="marking-validation-errors.dita#marking-validation-errors"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</concept>
