<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="videos-other-resources">
  <title>Resources to Help You Get Started Using <ph keyref="product"/>
  </title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Getting Started with Oxygen <indexterm>Resources to help you with
            Oxygen</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <section id="configuring">
      <title>Configuring <ph keyref="product"/></title>
      <p>There are numerous ways that you can configure <ph keyref="product"/> to accommodate your
        specific needs.<ul>
          <li>See the <xref href="configure-application.dita#configure-application">Configuring
              Oxygen section</xref> for details on the various ways that you can configure the
            application and its features.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section id="video_tutorials">
      <title>Video Tutorials</title>
      <p>The <ph keyref="product"/> website includes numerous video demonstrations and webinars that
        present many of the features that are available in <ph keyref="product"/> and show you how
        to complete specific tasks or how to use the various features.<ul>
          <li>Go to the <xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/videos.html" format="html"
              scope="external"><ph keyref="product"/> Videos Page</xref> to see the list of video
            tutorials and webinars.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section id="documentation">
      <title><ph keyref="product"/> Documentation</title>
      <p>The <ph keyref="product"/> documentation includes a plethora of sections and topics to
        provide you with a variety of information, ranging from basic authoring tasks to advanced
        developer techniques. You can, of course, search through the documentation using standard
        search mechanisms, but you can also place the cursor in any particular position in the
        interface and use the <uicontrol><shortcut>F1</shortcut></uicontrol> key to open a dialog
        box that presents a section in the documentation that is appropriate for the context of the
        current cursor position. Aside from the other topics in this <i>Getting Started</i> section,
        the following are links to other sections of the documentation that might be helpful for
        your specific needs:<ul>
          <li><b><xref href="text-mode-editor.dita#text-mode-editor">Text Editing Mode
                Section</xref></b> - Provides information about the <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol>
            editor.</li>
          <li product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse"><b><xref
                href="author-editor.dita#author-editor">Author Editing Mode Section</xref></b> -
            Provides information about the visual WYSIWYG-like <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> editing
            mode.</li>
          <li product="developer editor developerEclipse editorEclipse"><xref
              href="xml-schema-diagram-introduction.dita#xml-schema-diagram-introduction"><b>XML
                Schema Diagram Editor</b></xref> - Provides information about the schema design
            mode.</li>
          <li><b><xref href="editing-documents.dita#editing-documents">Editing Specific Document
                Types Chapter</xref></b> - Includes information about editing numerous different
            types of documents.</li>
          <li product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse"><b><xref
                href="author-dita.dita#author-dita">DITA Authoring Chapter</xref></b> - Provides
            information about using DITA to edit and structure your content.</li>
          <li><xref href="transforming-documents.dita#transforming-documents"><b>Publishing
                Chapter</b></xref> - Provides information about the various ways that you can
            publish content.</li>
          <li><b><xref href="import-introduction.dita#import-introduction">Importing Data
                Chapter</xref></b> - Provides information about importing data from text files, MS
            Excel files, database data, and HTML files.</li>
          <li><xref href="oxygen-tools.dita#oxygen-tools"><b>Tools Chapter</b></xref> - Details
            about the various built-in tools that are available in <ph keyref="product"/>.</li>
          <li product="author developer editor"><xref href="add-ons.dita#add-ons"><b>Add-ons
                Chapter</b></xref> - Information about how to extend the functionality of <ph
              keyref="product"/> through add-ons.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section id="sample_documents">
      <title>Sample Documents</title>
      <p>Your installation of <ph keyref="product"/> includes a large variety of sample documents
        and projects that you can use as templates to get started and to experiment with the various
        features and technologies. They are located in the <b>samples</b> folder that is located in
        the installation directory of <ph keyref="product"/>. You will find files and folders for
        various types of documents, including the following:<ul>
          <li><b>Sample project file (<i>sample.xpr</i>)</b> - A sample project file that will allow
            you to experiment with how projects can be structured and used. When you open this
            project file, you will be able to see all the sample files and folders in the <xref
              href="using-the-project-view.dita#using-the-project-view"><uicontrol
                product="author developer editor">Project</uicontrol><uicontrol
                product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">Navigator</uicontrol>
              view</xref>.</li>
          <li><b>Sample files (<i>personal.xml, etc.)</i></b> - A collection of interrelated sample
            files that will allow you to experiment with the structure and relationship between XML
            files, stylesheets, and schemas.</li>
          <li><b>Various document type folders</b> - The various folders contain sample files for
            numerous document types, such as CSS, DITA, DocBook, ePub, TEI, XHTML, and many
            others.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section id="other_resources">
      <title>Other Resources</title>
      <p>The following list includes links to various other resources that will help you get started
        using the features of <ph keyref="product"/>:<ul>
          <li>See the <xref href="http://blog.oxygenxml.com/" format="html" scope="external"><ph
                keyref="product"/> Blog Site</xref> for a large variety of current and archived
            blogs regarding numerous features, requests, and instructional topics.</li>
          <li>Take advantage of the <xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/forum/" format="html"
              scope="external"><ph keyref="product"/> Forum</xref> to see various announcements and
            learn more about specific issues that other users have experienced. </li>
          <li>If you are using DITA, see the incredibly helpful <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/dita/styleguide/webhelp-feedback/index.html"
              format="html" scope="external">DITA Style Guide Best Practices for
            Authors</xref>.</li>
          <li>To learn about the WebHelp features in <ph keyref="product"/>, see the <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/xml_webhelp.html" format="html" scope="external"
              >Publishing DITA and DocBook to WebHelp</xref> section of the website.</li>
          <li>For more information about various additional tools that are integrated into <ph
              keyref="product"/>, see the <xref href="oxygen-tools.dita#oxygen-tools">Tools
              section</xref>.</li>
          <li>See the <xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/external_resources.html" format="html"
              scope="external">External Resource Page</xref> for links to various other helpful
            resources, such as discussion lists, external tutorials, and more.</li>
          <li>See the <xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/oxygen_sdk.html" format="html"
              scope="external">Oxygen SDK</xref> section for details about the SDK that allows you
            to extend and develop <ph keyref="product"/>
            <xref keyref="glossentry_framework"><term>frameworks</term></xref> and <xref
              keyref="glossentry_plugin"><term>plugins</term></xref>, and to integrate Eclipse
            plugins.</li>
          <li>For a list of new features that were implemented in the latest version of <ph
              keyref="product"/>, see the <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/xml_editor/whats_new.html" format="html"
              scope="external" product="editor editorEclipse">What's New Section of the
              Website</xref><xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/xml_author/whats_new.html"
              format="html" scope="external" product="author authorEclipse">What's New Section of
              the Website</xref><xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/xml_developer/whats_new.html"
              format="html" scope="external" product="developer developerEclipse">What's New Section
              of the Website</xref></li>
          <li product="author developer editor">You can select the <xref
              href="help-menu.dita#help-menu/tip-of-the-day"><uicontrol>Tip of the
              Day</uicontrol></xref> action in the <xref href="help-menu.dita#help-menu"
                ><uicontrol>Help</uicontrol> menu</xref> to display a dialog box that includes a
            variety of tips for using <ph keyref="product"/>.</li>
          <li product="author developer editor">You can select <xref
              href="help-menu.dita#help-menu/dynamic-help"><uicontrol>Show Dynamic Help
                view</uicontrol></xref> from the <xref href="help-menu.dita#help-menu"
                ><uicontrol>Help</uicontrol> menu</xref> to dynamically opens a topic that is
            relevant to the focused editor, view, or dialog box.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
