<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="wa-add-terms-list">
  <title>Adding Custom Term Lists for the Spell Checker</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Custom term list</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Spell Checker custom term list</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>You can create personalized term lists that are used to store specialized terms (<i>learned
        words</i>) or control forbidden words. They can then be added to one of the directories that
      store the spell check dictionaries and the spell checker will merge them with all the
      dictionaries and other term lists for a particular language.</p>
    <section id="create_and_add_personalized_term_lists">
      <title>Create and Add Personalized Term Lists</title>
      <p>To create and add a personalized terms list, follow these steps:<ol>
          <li>Create a <i>term list</i> file (with a <filepath>.tdi</filepath> file extension). The
            name of the file must begin with a two letter prefix that indicates the language it
            should be attached to, followed by an underscore or hyphen, and then a descriptive name
            (for example, <filepath>en_US_myterms.tdi</filepath> for term list in the US version of
            the English language or <filepath>en_myterms.tdi</filepath> for a less specific English
            term list). For a list of language codes, see <xref
              href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes" format="html"
              scope="external"/>.</li>
          <li>In the term list file (<filepath>.tdi</filepath> extension), add the terms you want to
            be included in your custom dictionary. If you need to specify forbidden terms, those
            words simply need to be preceded by an asterisk. Add one word per row, as in the
            following
            example:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini">     parabola
     asimptotic
     *hyperbola</codeblock></li>
          <li>Save the file (<filepath>.tdi</filepath>) to the <filepath>options/spell</filepath>
            folder that is located inside your <xref
              href="webapp_deployment.dita#webapp_deployment/other_notes"><term>Oxygen Data
                Directory</term></xref> (<codeph>oxygen.data.dir/options/spell</codeph>).</li>
          <li>Restart the server for the spell checker to start using the new terms list.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <note type="tip">There is also a plugin available on GitHub that explains how you can define
      learned and forbidden words in an XML file and the plugin uses that file to add the
      learned/forbidden words to the Web Author spell check functionality. The plugin is available
      at: <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/web-author-learn-words-plugin" format="html"
        scope="external"/>.</note>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="wa-custom-dictionaries.dita"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
