<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="wa-ai-positron-vertex-ai-connector">
  <title>Oxygen AI Positron Vertex AI Connector Add-on for Web Author</title>
  <body>
    <p> The <b>Oxygen AI Positron Vertex AI Connector</b> add-on provides a connector for the
      <b>Oxygen AI Positron Assistant</b> in Web Author. The connector, named <uicontrol>Vertex AI
        Service</uicontrol>, enables integration with Google Cloud's Vertex AI platform. <note> The
          <b>Oxygen AI Positron Vertex AI Connector</b> add-on is compatible with <b>Oxygen XML Web
            Author</b> version 27.1.0 or newer. </note>
    </p>
    <section id="section_ox3_cl4_qfc">
      <title id="title_ptx_xk4_qfc">Installation</title>
      <p> You can download the plugin from here: <xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Addons/default/com/oxygenxml/oxygen-ai-positron-vertex-ai-connector-addon/1.0.0/oxygen-ai-positron-vertex-ai-connector-addon-1.0.0-plugin.jar"
          format="html" scope="external">Oxygen AI Positron Vertex AI Connector Add-on
          Download</xref>. </p>
      <p> You can then <xref
          href="webapp-configure-plugins.dita#webapp-configure-plugins/add_a_new_plugin">install the
          plugin</xref> in the Web Author or Content Fusion server to make the <uicontrol>Vertex AI
            Service</uicontrol> connector available in the <uicontrol>Oxygen AI Positron Assistant
              Enterprise for Web Author</uicontrol> plugin. </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_bvs_cl4_qfc">
      <title>How to configure the Vertex AI Service connector</title>
      <p> When the <b>Vertex AI Service</b> is selected from the <uicontrol>AI Service</uicontrol>
        administration page, the following options are available to configure the connector:
        <dl id="dl_dvs_cl4_qfc">
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Project ID</dt>
            <dd> The ID of your Google Cloud project. </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Location</dt>
            <dd> The location of your Google Cloud project (e.g., <codeph>us-central1</codeph>). </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Model</dt>
            <dd> The AI model to use (e.g., <codeph>google/gemini-2.0-flash</codeph>). </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Credential</dt>
            <dd> The content of the Google credential JSON file. The connector supports several
              credential configuration files for: <ul id="ul_evs_cl4_qfc">
                <li>
                  <b>Workforce Identity Federation</b>: Use an external identity provider (IdP) to
                  authenticate and authorize users to access Google Cloud resources. </li>
                <li>
                  <b>Workload Identity Federation</b>: Use an external IdP to authenticate and
                  authorize workloads to access Google Cloud resources. </li>
                <li>
                  <b>Service Account Key</b>: Use a service account key file for authentication.
                </li>
              </ul> If this field is left empty, the application will use <b>Google Cloud’s
                Application Default Credentials</b> (<xref
                href="https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/application-default-credentials"
                format="html" scope="external">documentation</xref>), searching for credentials in
              the following locations: <ul id="ul_fvs_cl4_qfc">
                <li><codeph>GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS</codeph> environment variable</li>
                <li>The attached service account</li>
              </ul>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
