<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="wa-custom-image-map-support">
  <title>Implementing Image Map Support in a Custom Framework</title>
  <body>
    <p>This topic describes how the rendering and editing of image maps can be implemented in a
      custom framework. This implementation will require the following:</p>
    <p>
      <ul id="ul_sqq_xp2_15b">
        <li><xref
            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/24.1.0/ug-waCustom/topics/webauthor-customize-with-css.html"
            format="html" scope="external">Write some CSS</xref> to configure the rendering of the
          image map.</li>
        <li><xref
            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/24.1.0/ug-waCustom/topics/wa-framework-java-extension.html"
            format="html" scope="external">Write Java classes</xref> to work with the custom image
          map format.</li>
        <li><xref
            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/24.1.0/ug-waCustom/topics/customizing_frameworks.html#customizing_frameworks__adding_javascript_code_to_a_framework"
            format="html" scope="external">Write JavaScript code</xref> to enable the web-based
          image map editor.</li>
      </ul>
    </p>
    <section id="section_zyq_mb2_15b">
      <title>Rendering Image Maps</title>
      <p>To render an image map, you can add a form control on the image element. The form control
        should have the following properties:</p>
      <p>
        <ul id="ul_ggs_hc2_15b">
          <li><codeph>webappRendererClassName</codeph> should be set to
              <codeph>ro.sync.ecss.webapp.formcontrols.WebappImageMapRenderer</codeph>.</li>
          <li><codeph>imageUrl</codeph> should be set to the (possibly relative) URL of the
            image.</li>
          <li><codeph>imageMapSupportFactory</codeph> should be the name of a Java class in your
            framework that implements
              <codeph>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.webapp.imagemap.WebappImageMapSupportFactory</codeph>.
            Its purpose is to decode the shapes from the document markup.</li>
        </ul>
      </p>
    </section>
    <example id="example_sgb_vc2_15b">
      <title>Rendering Image Maps for XHTML</title>
      <codeblock id="codeblock_z45_4b2_15b" outputclass="language-java">img[usemap] {
  content: oxy_editor(
    webappRendererClassName, "ro.sync.ecss.webapp.formcontrols.WebappImageMapRenderer"
    edit, "custom",
    imageUrl, attr(src),
    imageMapSupportFactory, "ro.sync.ecss.extensions.xhtml.XHTMLWebappImageMapSupportFactory");
}</codeblock>
    </example>
    <section id="section_pck_nb2_15b">
      <title>Editing Image Maps</title>
      <p>To edit an image map, you can instantiate <codeph>sync.api.EditImageMapAction</codeph> and
        register it in the <codeph>ActionsManager</codeph>. The second parameter of the constructor
        should be a Java class in your framework that extends
          <codeph>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.commons.imagemap.operations.UpdateImageMapOperationBase</codeph>.</p>
    </section>
    <example id="example_dlj_1n2_15b">
      <title>Action to Edit Image Maps for XHTML</title>
      <codeblock id="codeblock_qfq_cd2_15b" outputclass="language-java">editor.getActionsManager().registerAction('edit.image.map',
  new sync.api.EditImageMapAction(
    editor.getEditingSupport(),
    'ro.sync.ecss.extensions.xhtml.XHTMLUpdateImageMapOperation'));</codeblock>
    </example>
    <p>This action can be linked to a button form control added to the image map element.</p>
    <example id="example_qyd_gn2_15b">
      <title>Button Form Control to Launch the Image Map Editor</title>
      <codeblock id="codeblock_elw_v12_15b" outputclass="language-java">img[usemap]:after(2){
  display:block;
  content:oxy_button(actionID, 'edit.image.map'); 
}</codeblock>
    </example>
  </body>
</topic>
