<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="wa-confidential-data-handling">
  <title>Handling of Confidential Data</title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_eqr_dgk_54b"><ph keyref="webappProduct"/> is a web application that only has an on-premise distribution. </p>
    <section id="section_ecy_2ht_mpb">
      <title>Inbound Network Access</title>
      <p>By default, <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> accepts connections from web browsers using HTTPS
        and HTTP. The <xref href="wa_https_doc.dita#wa_https_doc/p_ikq_dgk_54b">HTTP support can be
          disabled</xref> once a valid certificate is configured. </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_pkg_kjp_1jb"><title>Outbound Network Access</title><p id="p_fqr_dgk_54b"
          ><ph keyref="webappProduct"/> needs to connect to the following servers:</p><ul
        id="ul_rr2_z3t_mpb">
        <li>The License Server. For distributions that come with a license server embedded, this
          connection uses HTTPS by default.</li>
        <li>The file server using one of the supported connectors (i.e. Git, WebDAV, Perforce).
          Depending on the file server, and how the connector is configured, this communication is
          done over HTTPS, HTTP or for Perforce using a proprietary protocol.</li>
      </ul>Also, it supports being configured with an HTTP(s) proxy server, which helps to better
      control the traffic it generates.</section>
    <section id="section_qm1_qjp_1jb">
      <title>Data Storage</title>
      <p id="p_gqr_dgk_54b">The files edited in <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> are stored in the server memory while the
        user edits them.</p>
      <p id="p_hqr_dgk_54b">Web Author has a mechanism to store some editing sessions as files on the server disk to
        reduce memory consumption. The risk of having these files on disk is mitigated by several
          measures:<ul id="ul_zww_s3p_1jb">
          <li id="li_iqr_dgk_54b">These files are stored on the disk only encrypted with a key that is stored in the
            server memory. When the server is stopped, the key is discarded.</li>
          <li id="li_jqr_dgk_54b">The files are deleted when the HTTP session of the user ends, or when a <xref
              href="customizing-options.dita">configurable timeout</xref> expires.</li>
          <li id="li_kqr_dgk_54b">The mechanism can be disabled using a <xref href="customizing-options.dita"
              >configuration option</xref>.</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p id="p_lqr_dgk_54b">Web Author comes with a built-in WebDAV server that is used to store sample files to help
        users during their evaluation. <xref href="wa-configure-builtin-webdav-plugin.dita">This
          server should not be used in production</xref>.</p>
      <p id="p_mqr_dgk_54b">The Git connector offers enhanced support for GitHub, GitLab, and BitBucket. For the rest
        of the Git servers, it offers generic support (this generic implementation creates clones of
        the Git repositories on the server's disk). You can disable this generic support in the
          <xref href="webapp-integrate-github-plugin.dita">administration page</xref>.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
