<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE troubleshooting PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA 1.3 Troubleshooting//EN" "troubleshooting.dtd">
<troubleshooting id="wa-change-tracking-problem">
  <title>Delete Table Row Operation Fails When Change Tracking is Enabled</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Common problems<indexterm>Operation cannot be executed</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Known issues<indexterm>Operation cannot be executed</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Operation cannot be executed</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Deactivate change tracking</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <troublebody>
    <condition id="problem">
      <title>Problem</title>
      <p id="p_lsr_dgk_54b">I tried to delete a row in table and I received the following
        error:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini" id="codeblock_msr_dgk_54b">This operation cannot be executed on a table while change tracking is enabled.
Deactivate change tracking and try again. </codeblock></p>
    </condition>
    <troubleSolution>
      <cause id="cause">
        <title>Cause</title>
        <p id="p_nsr_dgk_54b">Some complex operations are blocked when change tracking in enabled to
          prevent breaking the table structure.</p>
      </cause>
      <remedy id="solution">
        <title>Solution</title>
        <steps-informal>
          <p id="p_osr_dgk_54b">In most cases deleting a table row should not have caused an issue,
            for example when I delete a table row that I added myself with change tracking enabled.
            However, if the table row that I want to delete has cells that span multiple rows, the
            table layout may affected by change tracking.</p>
          <p>An administrator could set the <codeph>changeTrackingBehavior</codeph> parameter for
            the <codeph>DeleteTableRowOperation</codeph> with one of the following values:<ul
              id="ul_l5p_3ys_s4b">
              <li id="li_m5p_3ys_s4b"><b>Block</b> - The operation is not executed when change
                tracking is activated.</li>
              <li id="li_frf_kys_s4b"><b>Allow</b> - The operation is executed when change tracking
                is activated. In the future, if complex table operations are performed, the
                resulting table layout may be broken.</li>
              <li id="li_ewh_mys_s4b"><b>Allow without change tracking</b> - The operation is
                executed with change tracking disabled.</li>
              <li id="li_uwj_4ys_s4b"><b>Allow</b> - The editor decides which strategy to use,
                possibly asking the end user.</li>
            </ul></p>
        </steps-informal>
      </remedy>
    </troubleSolution>
  </troublebody>
</troubleshooting>
