<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="wa-custom-dictionaries">
  <title>Adding Custom Dictionaries for the Spell Checker</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Custom dictionaries</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Spell Checker custom dictionaries</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_xsq_dgk_54b"><ph keyref="webappProduct"/> includes an automatic spell checking feature and you can
      customize the words that are detected by adding custom dictionaries.</p>
    <p id="p_ysq_dgk_54b">To add a custom dictionary, follow these steps:<ol id="ol_zsq_dgk_54b">
        <li id="li_atq_dgk_54b">Download the files needed for your custom dictionary (or create your
          own). You will need a <i>dictionary</i> file (<filepath>.dic</filepath> file extension)
          and an <i>affix</i> file (<filepath>.aff</filepath> file extension). If the dictionary did
          not include an affix file (<filepath>.aff</filepath>), you can create one and leave it
          empty, but it is needed for the mechanism to work properly.<note type="tip"
            id="note_btq_dgk_54b">For a website that includes numerous dictionary files, see: <xref
              href="https://extensions.openoffice.org/" format="html" scope="external"
          />.</note></li>
        <li>In the dictionary file (<filepath>.dic</filepath> extension), add the words you want to
          be included in your custom dictionary. Add one word per row and the first line needs to
          contain the number of words, as in the following example:<codeblock id="codeblock_f1f_xrn_lfc" outputclass="language-ini">2
parabola
asimptotic</codeblock><p>
            <note type="tip" id="note_iph_ftn_lfc">Words stored in dictionaries are not handled as
              case-sensitive. Therefore, you do not need to include both uppercase and lowercase
              versions of the words.</note>
          </p></li>
        <li id="li_ctq_dgk_54b">Copy both files (<filepath>.dic</filepath> and
            <filepath>.aff</filepath>) to the <filepath>dicts</filepath> folder that is located
          inside your <xref href="wa-oxygen-data-dir.dita"><term>Oxygen Data Directory</term></xref>
            (<codeph>oxygen.data.dir/dicts</codeph>).<note type="important" id="note_dtq_dgk_54b"
            >The name of the dictionary file should begin with a two letter prefix that indicates
            the language it should be attached to, followed by an underscore or hyphen, and then a
            descriptive name (for example, <filepath>en_medical.dic</filepath> for a medical
            dictionary in the English language). For a list of language codes, see <xref
              href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes" format="html"
              scope="external"/>.</note><note type="notice" id="note_ynl_53m_bzb">It is important to
            have the <codeph>xml:lang</codeph> attribute set to <b>lang_LANG</b> in the document to
            ensure proper integration with the added custom dictionary.</note></li>
        <li id="li_etq_dgk_54b"><xref href="webauthor-restart.dita">Restart <ph keyref="webappProduct"/></xref> for the
          spell checker to start using the new dictionary.</li>
      </ol></p>
    <section id="specifying_a_particular_language_for_the_spell_ch">
      <title>Enabling a Spell Checker for Additional Languages</title>
      <p id="p_cfx_4lw_5gc">An English language tool plugin is available (<xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/maven/com/oxygenxml/languagetool-english-plugin/"
          format="html" scope="external"/>) that provides support for checking spelling and grammar
        in the English language only.</p>
      <p id="p_ftq_dgk_54b">Another language tool plugin is available (<xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/maven/com/oxygenxml/languagetool-plugin/" format="html"
          scope="external"/>) that provides support for using additional languages for the spell
        checker. The following additional languages are supported:<ul id="ul_gtq_dgk_54b">
          <li id="li_htq_dgk_54b">Italian</li>
          <li id="li_itq_dgk_54b">Dutch</li>
          <li id="li_jtq_dgk_54b">Spanish</li>
          <li id="li_ktq_dgk_54b">Japanese</li>
          <li id="li_ltq_dgk_54b">Simplified Chinese</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
