<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="wa-dita-specialization">
  <title>Integrating a DITA Specialization</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>DITA specialization</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_eqs_dgk_54b"><ph keyref="webappProduct"/> supports DITA specializations that allow you to design your own
      markup. The DITA specialization can be defined with any of the following:<ul id="ul_fqs_dgk_54b">
        <li id="li_gqs_dgk_54b"><b>DTD</b> - For configuration and specialization tutorials, see <xref
            href="http://dita4practitioners.github.io/dita-specialization-tutorials/" format="html"
            scope="external"/>.</li>
        <li id="li_hqs_dgk_54b"><b>XSD</b> - For configuration and specialization tutorials, see <xref
            href="http://dita4practitioners.github.io/dita-specialization-tutorials/" format="html"
            scope="external"/>.</li>
        <li id="li_iqs_dgk_54b"><b>Relax NG</b> - For more information, see the following presentation: <xref
            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/events/2015/dita-ot_day.html#Creating_DITA_OT_constraint_specialisation_plugins"
            format="html" scope="external">Creating DITA-OT Constraint/Specialization
          Plugins</xref>. For Relax NG coding requirements, see <xref
            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/dita/1.3/specs/archSpec/base/relax-ng-requirements.html"
            format="html" scope="external"/>.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p id="p_jqs_dgk_54b">To integrate a DITA specialization into <ph keyref="webappProduct"/>, follow this procedure:<ol id="ol_kqs_dgk_54b">
        <li id="li_lqs_dgk_54b">Open a standalone version of <term>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</term>.</li>
        <li id="li_mqs_dgk_54b">In a location where you have full write access, create a folder (for example,
            <filepath>my_dita_framework</filepath>).</li>
        <li id="li_nqs_dgk_54b">Create a folder inside your extended framework folder (for example,
            <filepath>my_dita_framework/my_dita_specialization</filepath>). This folder should
          contain your DTD or schema files and a <filepath>catalog.xml</filepath> file that
          references them.</li>
        <li id="li_oqs_dgk_54b">Create another catalog file inside the extended framework folder
            (<filepath>my_dita_framework/catalog.xml</filepath>) that points to the catalog file in
          your specialization folder. For example, this new <filepath>catalog.xml</filepath> file
          should look like
          this:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_pqs_dgk_54b">&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;catalog xmlns="urn:oasis:names:tc:entity:xmlns:xml:catalog">
   &lt;nextCatalog catalog="my_dita_specialization/catalog.xml"/>
&lt;/catalog></codeblock></li>
        <li id="li_qqs_dgk_54b">Extend an existing DITA framework:<ol id="ol_rqs_dgk_54b">
            <li id="li_sqs_dgk_54b">Open the <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol> dialog box <menucascade>
                <uicontrol>(Options</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>Preferences)</uicontrol>
              </menucascade> and go to <menucascade>
                <uicontrol>Document Type Association</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>Locations</uicontrol>
              </menucascade>. In this preferences page, add the path to the
                <filepath>my_dita_framework</filepath> folder in the <uicontrol>Additional
                frameworks directories</uicontrol> list and click <uicontrol>Apply</uicontrol>.</li>
            <li id="li_tqs_dgk_54b">Go to the <uicontrol>Document Type Association</uicontrol> preferences page and
              select an existing DITA framework configuration and use the
                <uicontrol>Extend</uicontrol> button to create an extension for it.</li>
            <li id="li_uqs_dgk_54b">Give the extension an appropriate name (for example, <b><i>DITA - Custom</i></b>),
              select <uicontrol>External</uicontrol> for the <uicontrol>Storage</uicontrol> option,
              and specify an appropriate path (for example,
                <filepath>path/to/.../my_dita_framework/dita-custom.framework</filepath>).</li>
            <li id="li_vqs_dgk_54b">In the <uicontrol>Catalogs</uicontrol> tab, add a new entry with the catalog file
              that you created above.</li>
            <li id="li_wqs_dgk_54b">Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> to close the dialog box and then
                <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> or <uicontrol>Apply</uicontrol> to save the changes.<note
                type="tip" id="note_xqs_dgk_54b">For more information about framework customization, see <xref
                  href="customizing_frameworks.dita"/>.</note></li>
          </ol></li>
        <li id="li_yqs_dgk_54b">Create an archive that contains your extended framework folder (for example,
            <filepath>my_dita_framework</filepath>). The archive should contain exactly one folder
          on the first level.</li>
        <li id="li_zqs_dgk_54b"><xref href="customizing_frameworks.dita#customizing_frameworks/deploying_a_framework"
            >Upload the framework to Web Author</xref>.</li>
      </ol></p>
    <note type="other" othertype="Tips" id="note_ars_dgk_54b">
      <ul id="ul_brs_dgk_54b">
        <li id="li_crs_dgk_54b">For a resource to help you with creating the DITA specialization, see the DITA for
          Practitioners <xref
            href="http://dita4practitioners.github.io/dita-specialization-tutorials/" format="html"
            scope="external">DITA Configuration and Specialization Tutorials</xref>.</li>
        <li id="li_drs_dgk_54b">
          <p id="p_ers_dgk_54b">If you need to define custom profiling attributes in your specialization, the
              <codeph>domains</codeph> attribute of the root element should
            contain:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_frs_dgk_54b">a(props ATTR)</codeblock></p>
          <p id="p_grs_dgk_54b">where <b>ATTR</b> is the name of the custom profiling attribute.</p>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </note>
    <note id="note_e1l_lwr_qfc" type="tip">An <xref href="wa-test-server-addon.dita"
          ><uicontrol>Oxygen XML Web Author Test Server</uicontrol> add-on</xref> (for <b>Oxygen XML
        Editor/Author</b>) is available to help you test custom frameworks for Web Author. It allows
      you to quickly preview and edit your opened XML documents in a local Web Author Test Server
      that uses the same framework that is associated with the document.</note>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="http://dita4practitioners.github.io/dita-specialization-tutorials/" format="html"
        scope="external">
        <linktext>DITA Configuration and Specialization Tutorials</linktext>
      </link>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
