<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="wa-enabling-outline-pane">
  <title>Enabling the Outline Pane for DITA and Other Frameworks</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Outline pane customization</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_trs_dgk_54b"><ph keyref="webappProduct"/> includes an <xref
        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-webauthor/topics/wa-outline-pane.html" format="html"
        scope="external"><uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol> side-pane</xref> that displays a general tag
      overview of the current document. It is enabled and available, by default, for DITA Map,
      DocBook, TEI, and XHTML documents. However, it is possible to configure other frameworks (such
      as DITA topics) to display the pane.</p>
    <p id="p_urs_dgk_54b">To enable the <xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-webauthor/topics/wa-outline-pane.html"
        format="html" scope="external"><uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol> pane</xref> for a custom
      framework, follow these steps:<ol id="ol_n21_zpk_slb">
        <li id="li_vrs_dgk_54b">Create a configuration file named <b>webAuthorOutlineConfig.xml</b>.
          The following is an example of what this configuration file looks like for
          DocBook:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_wrs_dgk_54b">&lt;outline> 
  &lt;structureMode editable="yes" default="no">
    &lt;preferredAttributes names="id xml:id"/> 
  &lt;/structureMode> 
  &lt;tocMode editable="yes" default="yes">
    &lt;elements names="section sect1 sect2 sect3 sect4 sect5 simplesect article book"/> 
  &lt;/tocMode> 
&lt;/outline></codeblock><p id="p_xrs_dgk_54b">Notice that there are two elements that
  define the two modes: <xmlelement>structureMode</xmlelement> (for the
  <uicontrol>Structure</uicontrol> mode that displays the information in the pane as a
  general tag overview of the current XML document) and <xmlelement>tocMode</xmlelement>
  (for the <uicontrol>Contents</uicontrol> mode that displays the information in the pane
  like a table of contents).</p><p id="p_uzk_lth_lyb">By using
    <codeph>editable="yes"</codeph>, the document structure can be edited from the
    <uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol> view using drag-and-drop or contextual menu
    actions.</p><p>The <xmlelement>structureMode</xmlelement> element includes an optional
      <xmlelement>preferredAttributes</xmlelement> child element. This element allows you to
      specify a list of space separated attribute names (using the <xmlatt>names</xmlatt>
      attribute) that are prioritized for display in the <uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol> pane.
      For example, in the DocBook sample configuration the value of the <codeph>id</codeph>
      attribute (or <codeph>xml:id</codeph>, if <codeph>id</codeph> is not present) is
      rendered in the <uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol> pane, making it easier to identify and
      manage elements based on these attributes.</p></li>
        <li id="li_yrs_dgk_54b">The configuration file must be stored in a folder included in the framework's classpath.
          To add the folder to the classpath:<ol id="ol_opj_rgw_slb">
            <li id="li_zrs_dgk_54b"> In <b>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</b>, go to <menucascade>
                <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>Document Type Association</uicontrol>
            </menucascade> and edit the document type configuration for your custom
              framework.</li>
            <li id="li_ass_dgk_54b">In the <uicontrol>Classpath</uicontrol> tab, add a link to the folder where you
              stored the configuration file.<note id="note_bss_dgk_54b">It is important to reference the exact folder that
                contains the configuration file (it cannot be located in a subfolder within the
                referenced folder).</note></li>
          </ol></li>
        <li id="li_css_dgk_54b"> Create an archive that only contains your custom framework folder and <xref
            href="customizing_frameworks.dita#customizing_frameworks/deploying_a_framework">upload
            the changes to your <term>framework</term> to Web Author</xref>.</li>
      </ol></p>
    <note type="tip" id="note_dss_dgk_54b">It is also possible to set the
      <uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol> pane configuration as part of a Javascript plugin, using the
      <codeph>outlineConfigurationProvider</codeph> loading option. It can be set like
      this:<codeblock outputclass="language-javascript" id="codeblock_ess_dgk_54b">goog.events.listen(workspace,sync.api.Workspace.EventType.BEFORE_EDITOR_LOADED,function(e)
 {
    e.options.outlineConfigurationProvider = function(callback) {
        callback("{\n" + 
    "    \"structureMode\": {\n" + 
    "        \"editable\": \"yes\",\n" + 
    "        \"defaultMode\": \"no\",\n" + 
    "        \"preferredAttributes\": {\"names\": \"id xml:id\"}\n" + 
    "    },\n" + 
    "    \"tocMode\": {\n" + 
    "        \"editable\": \"yes\",\n" + 
    "        \"defaultMode\": \"yes\",\n" + 
    "        \"elements\": {\"names\": \"topic\"}\n" + 
    "    }\n" + 
    "}");
    }
 });</codeblock></note>
    <section id="section_o5s_mtk_slb">
      <title>How to Configure the Displayed Names of Elements in the Outline Pane</title>
      <p id="p_fss_dgk_54b">The <b>Contents</b> mode (table of contents mode) uses a heuristic
        algorithm to present a <i>title</i> for any element that appears in the Outline. For
        advanced use-cases, it is possible to specify how the title for an element can be found.</p>
      <p id="p_gss_dgk_54b">Here is a DocBook example of what the <xmlelement>tocMode</xmlelement>
        element would look like for this type of
        configuration:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_hss_dgk_54b">&lt;outline> 
  &lt;tocMode editable="no">
    &lt;elements names="section sect1 sect2 sect3 sect4 sect5 simplesect article book"/> 
    &lt;titleLocator element="section" location="title, @spectitle"/>  
    &lt;titleLocator element="sect1" location="title"/>  
  &lt;/tocMode> 
&lt;/outline></codeblock></p>
      <p>The <xmlelement>elements</xmlelement> element specifies which elements are to be presented
        in the <uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol> pane in the <i>Contents</i> mode, using a
        space-separated list of element local names in the <xmlatt>names</xmlatt> attribute.</p>
      <p>Each element <codeph>titleLocator</codeph> specifies how to determine the title for an
        element that is presented in the <uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol> pane in the <i>Contents</i>
        mode.</p>
      <p id="p_iss_dgk_54b">For each element presented in <i>Contents</i> mode, you can control the
        rendered text in the outline tree with the <xmlatt>location</xmlatt> attribute of the
        <xmlelement>titleLocator</xmlelement> element.  That is a comma-separated list of the
        following simplified XPath-like expressions:<ul id="ul_p3l_jvk_slb">
          <li id="li_jss_dgk_54b">Element name (e.g. <codeph>title</codeph> or
            <codeph>h1</codeph>)</li>
          <li>Element path (e.g.<codeph>elementName1/elementName2/.../elementNameN</codeph>)</li>
          <li>Descendent element prefixed with ".//" (e.g. <codeph>.//title</codeph>)</li>
          <li id="li_kss_dgk_54b">Attribute name prefixed with "@" (e.g.
            <codeph>@title</codeph>)</li>
          <li>Any <term>before</term>, <term>before(n)</term>, <term>after,</term> or
            <term>after(n)</term> pseudo-element<p>For example, <codeph>"before(1030)"</codeph>
              selects the static content from the <codeph>before</codeph> pseudo-element on level
              1030. This works in conjunction with a CSS rule that sets static content on the
              <codeph>before(1030)</codeph> pseudo-element. For reference, see the following
              resources:<ul id="ul_ltw_p5p_hdc">
                <li><xref
                    href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-editor/topics/ch_advanced_styling_multiple_before_and_after_pseudo_elements.html"
                    format="html" scope="external">Advanced styling with multiple before and after
                    pseudo-elements</xref></li>
                <li><xref
                    href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-editor/topics/dg-oxygen-css-functions.html"
                    format="html" scope="external">Custom CSS Functions in Oxygen XML
                    Editor</xref></li>
              </ul></p></li>
        </ul></p>
      <p id="p_lss_dgk_54b">The first XPath-like expression that returns content will be used, and
        the title will be its first value, in case multiple values are returned. If no
        <xmlelement>titleLocator</xmlelement> element is present, or if no values are obtained by
        evaluating the XPath-like expressions, the default algorithm is used to retrieve the title
        for that element.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_psf_tfq_j4b">
      <title>How to Configure Which Side of the Editor the Outline Pane Appears</title>
      <p id="p_mss_dgk_54b">You can configure which side the <uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol> pane is displayed on by
        setting either of the following:</p>
      <ul id="ul_jpw_rgq_j4b">
        <li id="li_nss_dgk_54b"><xref
            href="webauthor-integrate-embedded-launch.dita#webauthor-integrate-embedded-launch/url_parameters"
            ><codeph>outlinePlacement</codeph> loading option (URL parameter)</xref></li>
        <li id="li_oss_dgk_54b"><xref href="customizing-options.dita#customizing-options/table_ifg_5rl_rnb"
            ><codeph>PLUGIN_CUSTOM_OPTIONS.outlinePlacement</codeph> in the
            <filepath>options.xml</filepath></xref></li>
      </ul>
      <p id="p_pss_dgk_54b">In both cases, the accepted values are: <codeph>left</codeph> (default)
        and <codeph>right</codeph>.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
