<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="wa-file-comparison-tool-cms">
  <title>Integrating the File Comparison Tool with a CMS</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>diff</indexterm>
        <indexterm>File comparison</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Compare files</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_qpm_ltj_drb"><ph keyref="product"/> provides a <xref
        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-webauthor/topics/wa-file-comparison-tool.html" format="html"
        scope="external">file comparison tool</xref> that is offered as an API for CMS
      integrations.</p>
    <p>The File Comparison tool is a useful feature that can be used to show differences between the
      current document and either its latest version from the repository or another document.</p>
    <section id="id_3">
      <title>Integration Approach</title>
      <p>To launch the Web Author Merge tool, it must be started with the following URL
        parameters:</p>
      <p>
        <dl id="dl_gjh_qkq_crb">
          <dlentry>
            <dt>url</dt>
            <dd>
              <p>The <xref href="oxy-url.dita">OXY-URL</xref> of one of the files to be compared. It
                will be loaded in the left side of the comparison tool.</p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>diffUrl</dt>
            <dd>
              <p>The <xref href="oxy-url.dita">OXY-URL</xref> of the other file to be compared. It
                will be loaded in the right-side document from the comparison tool.</p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>diffBaseUrl</dt>
            <dd>
              <p>The <xref href="oxy-url.dita">OXY-URL</xref> of the base file used for the 3-way
                comparison. It is usually a file version where the two versions diverged (the common
                ancestor). If this parameter is not specified, the tool will perform a 2-way diff
                and will not be able to detect conflicts.</p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
      <p>Keep in mind that the above parameters have to be <xref
        href="webauthor-integrate-embedded-launch.dita#webauthor-integrate-embedded-launch/url_parameters"
        >set as URL parameters</xref> and note that there are others that can be used to configure
        various aspects of the editor.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-webauthor/topics/wa-file-comparison-tool.html"
      format="html" scope="external">
      <linktext>Web Author File Comparison Tool</linktext>
    </link>
    <link href="wa-merge-tool-cms.dita"/>
  </related-links>
</topic>
