<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="wa-merge-tool-cms">
  <title>Integrating the File Merge Tool with a CMS</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>diff</indexterm>
        <indexterm>diffUrl</indexterm>
        <indexterm>diffType</indexterm>
        <indexterm>diffBaseUrl</indexterm>
        <indexterm>merge</indexterm>
        <indexterm>compare</indexterm>
        <indexterm>combine</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_qpm_ltj_drb"><ph keyref="product"/> provides a <xref
      href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-webauthor/topics/wa-merge-tool.html" format="html"
      scope="external">file merge tool</xref> that is offered as an API for CMS integrations.</p>
    <p>The Merge Tool is a useful feature for cases where multiple users work with the same file in
      parallel because it can be used to resolve conflicts when committing changes to a repository.
      Also it can be used to compare current unsaved changes with the document stored in the
      CMS.</p>
    <section id="id_2">
      <title>Use-cases</title>
      <ul id="ul_d54_zgc_drb">
        <li id="li_e54_zgc_drb">A CMS often keeps track of multiple versions of a file. For example,
          if a new legal requirement has to be addressed in the documentation, all the versions of
          the file have to be updated. One option is to make the change to the oldest version and
          merge those changes in the other versions.</li>
        <li id="li_m4h_1hc_drb">If a CMS supports a review workflow, the copy of the file that is
          sent for review can be changed in the CMS for other reasons. On the other hand, the review
          workflow also results in some updates to the file. At the end, these updates need to be
          merged in the version on the CMS.</li>
        <li id="li_lmr_1hc_drb">In other systems (such as Git), different users can edit the same
          file in parallel. When they finish editing, they have to merge the changes.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="id_3">
      <title>Integration Approach</title>
      <p>To launch the Web Author Merge tool, it must be started with the following URL
        parameters:</p>
      <p>
        <dl id="dl_gjh_qkq_crb">
          <dlentry>
            <dt>url</dt>
            <dd>
              <p>The <xref href="oxy-url.dita">OXY-URL</xref> of one of the files to be merged. This
                is the merge target. It will be loaded in the left part of the merge tool, will be
                editable and will contain the merged version of the file.</p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>diffUrl</dt>
            <dd>
              <p>The <xref href="oxy-url.dita">OXY-URL</xref> of the other file to be merged.</p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>diffType</dt>
            <dd>
              <p>Use <codeph>merge</codeph> for the value to allow merging. If this parameter is not
                specified, the left editor won't be editable, thus the tool will work as a read-only
                diff tool.</p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>diffBaseUrl</dt>
            <dd>
              <p>The <xref href="oxy-url.dita">OXY-URL</xref> of the base file used for the 3-way
                merge process. Usually, a file version where the two versions diverged (the common
                ancestor). If this parameter is not specified, the tool will perform a 2-way diff
                and will not be able to detect conflicts.</p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>leftEditorLabel</dt>
            <dd>
              <p>Use this URL parameter to customize the label for the left editor. By default, the
                label presents the file name.</p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>rightEditorLabel</dt>
            <dd>
              <p>Use this URL parameter to customize the label for the right editor. By default, the
                label presents the file name.</p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
      <p>Keep in mind that the above parameters have to be <xref
        href="webauthor-integrate-embedded-launch.dita#webauthor-integrate-embedded-launch/url_parameters"
        >set as URL parameters</xref> and note that there are others that can be used to configure
        various aspects of the editor.</p>
      <p>An example of a merge URL can be found on our public demo web page: <xref
        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/oxygen-xml-web-author/app/oxygen.html?url=samples%3A%2F%2Fsamples%2Fdiff%2Fchess%2FChess.dita&amp;diffUrl=samples%3A%2F%2Fsamples%2Fdiff%2Fchess%2FChess_repo.dita&amp;diffBaseUrl=samples%3A%2F%2Fsamples%2Fdiff%2Fchess%2FChess_base.dita&amp;leftEditorLabel=Your%20version&amp;rightEditorLabel=Latest%20version&amp;diffType=merge&amp;tags-mode=no-tags"
          format="html" scope="external">Compare Files sample</xref>.</p>
      <p>After the user finishes the merge, the merged content will be in the left-side pane. To get
        the merged content, you can use JavaScript code from a plugin as follows:</p>
      <codeblock id="pre_gm2_nkq_crb" outputclass="language-javascript">/** @type {sync.api.Editor} */
var editor = ...;
editor.getContent((err, content) => {
  if (!err) {
    // Save the content of the editor
  }
});</codeblock>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-webauthor/topics/wa-merge-tool.html" format="html"
      scope="external">
      <linktext>Web Author Merge Tool</linktext>
    </link>
  </related-links>
</topic>
