<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="wa-migrate-frameworks">
  <title>Migrating a Framework from Oxygen XML Editor/Author to Web Author</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Migrate Oxygen frameworks</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>Frameworks developed for <i>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</i> have a high degree of compatibility
      with <ph keyref="webappProduct"/>. However, in some cases, additional work is required to make
      the framework compatible with both products.</p>
    <section id="section_kjk_tkw_ljb">
      <title>General Recommendations</title>
      <p>You can use the <xref
          href="customizing_frameworks.dita#customizing_frameworks/developing_and_testing_a_framework_using_the_weba"
          >Web Author Test Server add-on</xref> to test your framework in both products with minimal
          overhead.<note>It is always useful to check out the server log. It can be found in the
          plugin's folder in: <filepath>tomcat/logs/oxygen.log</filepath>.</note></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_zsm_flw_ljb">
      <title>Document Styles</title>
      <p>The CSS styles used to render the document in the desktop application can be re-used in Web
        Author, although there are some <xref href="webapp_css_limitations.dita"
        >limitations</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_k2h_qtx_jjb">
      <title>Toolbar and Contextual Menu Actions</title>
      <p>Some of the toolbar actions may not be appear in Web Author. The most common reason is that
        the toolbar actions use a custom <codeph>AuthorOperation</codeph> that is not <xref
          href="customizing_frameworks.dita#customizing_frameworks/author-mode-operation-li">marked
          as compatible with Web Author</xref>. Sometimes, this is just a matter of annotating your
        custom Java class. In other cases (for example, when the <codeph>AuthorOperation</codeph> is
        used to show a custom Java Swing dialog box), it has to be <xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/maven/com/oxygenxml/oxygen-webapp/21.1.0.0/jsdoc/tutorial-customaction.html"
          format="html" scope="external">re-implemented in JavaScript</xref>.</p>
      <p>This is how the toolbar structure is built:<ul id="ul_oyt_v5x_jjb">
          <li>The default structure of the toolbar is defined in the
              <filepath>*.framework</filepath> file and is common with the one in the desktop
            editor. You can visualize it using the <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-editor/topics/the-document-type-dialog.html"
              format="html" scope="external">Document Type Configuration dialog box</xref>.</li>
          <li>The client-side component of Web Author retrieves this configuration using an HTTP
            request to something like
              <codeph>./rest/VERSION/actions/actionsConfig/docNNN.NNN</codeph>. Actions that are not
            compatible are removed from this configuration. You can check it in the browser's Dev
            Tools <uicontrol>Network</uicontrol> tab.</li>
          <li>If you are extending another framework, it can <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/maven/com/oxygenxml/oxygen-webapp/21.1.0.0/jsdoc/tutorial-removeaction.html"
              format="html" scope="external">override the configuration of the toolbar</xref> using
            JavaScript code. </li>
          <li>When the contextual menu is shown, actions that are not enabled at a specific position
            are not shown.</li>
        </ul></p>
      <note>The actions on the Web Author toolbar are not disabled based on the location of the
        cursor. However, they always try to find a valid position for that element in a position
        that is close to the cursor location.</note>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
