<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="wa-merge-tool">
  <title>Merge Tool</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Merge tool</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> includes a file merge tool. It can be activated in several ways: </p>
    <p>
      <ul id="ul_edy_xdq_crb">
        <li>Using the <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>More... (triple dots)</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Compare with...</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Latest version from repository</uicontrol>
          </menucascade> action in the toolbar of a regular editor.<ul id="ul_yyc_xdq_crb">
            <li>This action opens the merge dialog if the editor is not read-only and if the file is
              not part of a concurrent editing session. Otherwise the <xref
                href="wa-file-comparison-tool.dita">file comparison tool</xref> is opened.</li>
            <li>After you close the dialog, the changes you merged in the left file are synchronized
              to the main editor.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>When committing a file in a Git repository, if there is a conflict.</li>
        <li><?oxy_comment_start author="Cristian Talau" timestamp="20211001T064325+0000" comment="Link to this topic: https://fusion.oxygenxml.com/tasks/kf1jmusm9ue0ardtlrs90bfpfd26t8gkn32fd5en7s7s6d72/edit/Merge-Integration.dita"?>Integrated
          in a workflow<?oxy_comment_end?>.</li>
      </ul>
    </p>
    <p>The Merge tool presents two files that will be merged. The one on the left is editable and
      will contain the merged content. Differences between files are highlighted and the user ca
      navigate among them. If a base file is provided, the tool will perform a
      <?oxy_comment_start author="Cristian Talau" timestamp="20211001T064821+0000" comment="Maybe we need a section to explain what 3-way diff is. "?>3-way
      diff algorithm<?oxy_comment_end?>.</p>
    <p>To merge the changes one can use the following functions:</p>
    <p>
      <ul id="ul_yg4_3gq_crb">
        <li>An action to copy a change or a block of changes from the right file to the left
          one.</li>
        <li>An action to copy all changes from the right file to the left one. If a 3-way merge is
          performed and the editor identified conflicts, the action will copy all non-conflicting
          changes.</li>
        <li>Manually editing in the left file, including features like: <ul id="ul_njr_chq_crb">
            <li>Text editing</li>
            <li>Inserting new elements using the Content Completion menu (triggered when pressing
                  <uicontrol><shortcut>Enter</shortcut></uicontrol>).</li>
            <li>Cut, Copy, and Paste content. These actions can be invoked either by their standard
              shortcuts or from the contextual menu.</li>
            <li>A find and replace dialog.</li>
            <li>Actions to add and remove attributes. </li>
            <li>Undo and Redo changes.</li>
          </ul></li>
      </ul>
    </p>
    <p>After making changes in the left file, the new differences between the two files may be
      created. The visual highlights of these differences ca become out-of-date. By default, the
      visual highlights are updated automatically when the user makes changes to the document. </p>
    <p>For large documents, this update can take long and affect the user experience, so the editor
      can be configured to disable this behavior using the
        <codeph>&amp;runDiffOnChange=false</codeph> URL parameter. In this case, a
        <uicontrol>Re-compute Differences</uicontrol> button appears on the toolbar to update the
      visual highlights.</p>
    <section id="section_vvs_vvd_1rb">
      <title>Resources</title>
      <p id="p_nll_dgk_54bc">To see a visual demonstration of the Web Author Merge tool, watch our
        video:</p>
      <p id="p_oll_dgk_54bd"><object width="450" height="250"
          data="https://www.youtube.com/embed/87iFAG6p6xA" outputclass="iframe">
          <param name="allowfullscreen" value="true"/>
        </object></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
