<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="wa-oidc-auth">
  <title>Application Authentication with OIDC</title>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> supports authentication through the OpenID Connect protocol by
      configuring the "Web Author OIDC Authentication Plugin" from the <xref
        href="webapp-admin-page.dita">Administration Page</xref> (in the <b>Plugins</b> section).
      Supported identity providers include Microsoft Entra ID and Okta.</p>
    <p>
      <note id="note_pk1_nnq_dfc">To enable OIDC authentication for administrators, you must follow
        this procedure: <xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-waCustom/topics/wa-login-admin-oidc.html"
          format="html" scope="external"/>.</note>
    </p>
    <p>To enable authentication with OIDC:<ol id="ol_y1d_5sn_cfc">
        <li>Define a new application in the administration interface of your OpenID Connect provider
          to represent your <ph keyref="product"/> deployment:<ol id="ol_ycc_1tn_cfc">
            <li>When you are asked for a redirect URI, use the following value:<p id="p_x3p_mdy_2fc"
                  ><codeph>http://&lt;web-author-address>/oxygen-xml-web-author/plugins-dispatcher/oidc-callback</codeph>
                (where <codeph>&lt;web-author-address></codeph> is replaced with the actual address
                of your server).</p></li>
            <li>After you define the application, you need to note the <b>Client ID</b> (or
                <b>Application (client) ID</b> for Microsoft Entra ID) and <b>Client Secret</b> that
              will be generated for you.</li>
          </ol></li>
        <li>On the machine where Web Author is installed, go to the <xref
            href="webapp-admin-page.dita">Administration Page</xref>. In the <b>Plugins</b> section,
          find <b>Web Author OIDC Authentication Plugin</b> and click on <b>Configure</b>.<p>For
              Okta:<ul id="ul_ytk_2wn_cfc">
              <li><b>Provider Name</b> - Enter a name familiar for your users. They will see it in
                the UI: "Authenticate with <codeph>&lt;Provider Name></codeph>".</li>
              <li>To retrieve the <b>authorization</b>, <b>token</b>, and <b>user info</b>
                endpoints, append <codeph>/.well-known/openid-configuration</codeph> to the
                  <b>Issuer URI</b> of your <b>Authorization Server</b>. You can find the <b>Issuer
                  URI</b> in <menucascade>
                  <uicontrol>Okta Admin Console</uicontrol>
                  <uicontrol>Security</uicontrol>
                  <uicontrol>API</uicontrol>
                  <uicontrol>Authorization Servers</uicontrol>
                </menucascade>. <p id="p_iwg_fbk_4fc">For example, your discovery URL might look
                  like:<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne">https://&amp;lt;okta-subdomain>.okta.com/oauth2/&amp;lt;authorizationServerId>/.well-known/openid-configuration</codeblock></p><p
                  id="p_jwg_fbk_4fc">where you must replace <codeph>&lt;okta-subdomain></codeph>with
                  your Okta domain, and <codeph>&lt;authorizationServerId></codeph> with the actual
                  ID of your <b>Authorization Server</b>.</p></li>
              <li><b>Client ID</b> - Enter the <b>Client ID</b> that was generated in step one.</li>
              <li><b>Client Secret</b> - Enter the <b>Client Secret</b> that was generated in step
                one.</li>
            </ul></p><p>For Microsoft Entra ID:<ul id="ul_ed1_nwn_cfc">
              <li><b>Provider Name</b> - Enter a name familiar for your users. They will see it in
                the UI: "Authenticate with <codeph>&lt;Provider Name></codeph>".</li>
              <li>To retrieve the <b>authorization</b>, <b>token</b>, and <b>user info</b>
                endpoints, use:
                  <codeph>https://login.microsoftonline.com/&lt;tenant-id>/v2.0/.well-known/openid-configuration</codeph>where
                you must replace <codeph>&lt;tenant-id></codeph> with the Directory (tenant) ID from
                your registered application's overview in Azure Portal.</li>
              <li><b>Client ID</b> - Enter the <b>Application (client) ID</b> that was generated in
                step one.</li>
              <li><b>Client Secret</b> - Enter the <b>Client Secret</b> that was generated in step
                one.</li>
            </ul></p></li>
        <li>Click <b>Apply</b>.</li>
        <li>To enable Single Sign-On in <b>Web Author</b> using one of the configured providers,
          follow these steps:<ol id="ol_zzw_mp4_cfc">
            <li>Open the <xref href="webapp-admin-page.dita">Administration Page</xref> in Web
              Author.</li>
            <li>Navigate to the <b>Security</b> section.</li>
            <li>In the <b>Application authentication provider</b> drop-down list, select the
              identity provider you configured (e.g., OKTA or Microsoft Entra ID).</li>
            <li>Click <b>Apply</b> to activate the selected provider.</li>
          </ol></li>
      </ol></p>
    <p><b>Result:</b> Users will now have the option to log on to <b>Web Author</b> using the OpenID
      Connect provider.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
