<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="wa-other-doc-types">
  <title>Other Supported Document Types</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Supported document types</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_yl4_dgk_54b">Along with the <xref href="webauthor-predefined-frameworks.dita">fully supported built-in
          <term>frameworks</term> (document types)</xref>, <ph keyref="product"/> also provides
      limited support (including document templates) for editing some other document types.</p>
    <section id="markdown_documents">
      <title>Markdown Documents</title>
      <p id="p_zl4_dgk_54b"><ph keyref="webappProduct"/> includes a Markdown editor for documents with a file extension
        of <filepath>.md</filepath>, <filepath>.markdown</filepath>, <filepath>.mdown</filepath>, or
          <filepath>.markdn</filepath>. It provides toolbar actions to insert common Markdown
        structures such as inline markup, lists, code blocks, images, links, tables, and others.
        Once inserted, the markup is rendered with a specific style. For example, titles are
        rendered with a larger font.</p>
      <p id="p_am4_dgk_54b">If a <xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-waCustom/topics/webauthor-integrate-embedded-launch.html"
          format="html" scope="external"><codeph>schematronUrl</codeph> parameter</xref> is
        specified for the current Markdown document, it is validated in real time against the
        business rules specified in the Schematron file. This Schematron is applied on the DITA
        content that results from converting the Markdown document into a DITA document.</p>
      <p id="p_rps_zp5_wdc">Issues are presented in the editor in several ways:</p>
      <ul id="ul_jvb_yg5_nkb">
        <li id="li_bm4_dgk_54b">The corresponding content is underlined with a color according to the problem
          severity.</li>
        <li id="li_cm4_dgk_54b">Details about the problem are presented in the <uicontrol>Validation</uicontrol>
          side-view.</li>
        <li id="li_dm4_dgk_54b">Details about the problem appear in a tooltip when you hover over content where the
          problem is detected.</li>
      </ul>
      <note type="warning" id="note_em4_dgk_54b">If a Schematron file is not detected as being trusted, it is executed in
        a sandbox that, for example, restricts the use of the <codeph>document</codeph> XPath
        function to load external resources. The Schematron file can be marked as trusted in the
          <uicontrol>Security</uicontrol> section of the <xref href="webapp-admin-page.dita"
        />.</note>
      <p id="p_fm4_dgk_54b">This Markdown support is available for Web Author integrations with the following types of
        file repositories:<ul id="ul_g4h_3f5_nkb">
          <li id="li_gm4_dgk_54b"><xref href="using-webapp-github.dita">Git</xref></li>
          <li id="li_jm4_dgk_54b"><xref href="how_to_webapp_webdav.dita">WebDAV</xref><note
              id="note_ukl_2q5_fcc">Markdown documents do not support the auto-lock feature for
              WebDAV repository integrations.</note></li>
        </ul></p>
      <p id="p_lm4_dgk_54b">A Markdown template file is also available in the <xref
          href="webapp-create-open-docs.dita#webapp-create-open-docs/create_a_new_document"
            ><uicontrol>Create File</uicontrol> dialog box when creating a new file</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_ljj_rtw_kdc">
      <title>Text Documents</title>
      <p>You can edit non-XML files in <ph keyref="webappProduct"/>, if they are stored on a <xref
          href="using-webapp-github.dita">Git</xref> repository. For other repositories, they are
        opened as read-only (this is available for built-in support, when there is no customization
        that specifically allows editing) .</p>
    </section>
    <section id="knowledge_base_articles">
      <title>Knowledge Base Articles</title>
      <p id="p_mm4_dgk_54b"><ph keyref="webappProduct"/> includes a <uicontrol>Knowledge Base Article</uicontrol>
        template available in the <xref
          href="webapp-create-open-docs.dita#webapp-create-open-docs/create_a_new_document"
            ><uicontrol>Create File</uicontrol> dialog box when creating a new file</xref>. It is a
        DITA-based document and simply provides a starting point for a typical structure for a
        knowledge base article.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="image_files">
      <title>Image Files</title>
      <p id="p_nm4_dgk_54b">You can open various types of image files in <ph keyref="webappProduct"/>. They cannot be
        edited but a preview of the image is shown and you can perform normal file operations such
        as committing/saving to your type of repository, or copying the image to the system
        clipboard.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
