<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="wa-product-vs-sdk">
  <title>Web Author vs. Web Author Component</title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_blf_dgk_54b">The purpose of this topic is to help you choose which distribution of <ph
        keyref="webappProduct"/> is appropriate for your particular use-case.</p>
    <p id="p_clf_dgk_54b"><ph keyref="webappProduct"/> has two distributions:<ol id="ol_dlf_dgk_54b">
        <li id="li_elf_dgk_54b"><b>Oxygen XML Web Author</b> (product) - This version can be downloaded from <xref
            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/xml_web_author/download_oxygenxml_web_author.html"
            format="html" scope="external">the Oxygen website</xref> and is licensed according to
          the <xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/eula_webauthor.html" format="html"
            scope="external">Web Author License Agreement</xref>.</li>
        <li id="li_flf_dgk_54b"><b>Web Author Component</b> - Provided as a Maven artifact (according to the <xref
            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/sdk_agreement.html" format="html" scope="external">SDK
            Agreement</xref>) that is used in the <xref
            href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/web-author-component-integration" format="html"
            scope="external">Web Author Component integration project</xref>. This project can be
          used as a starting point for your integration.<note id="note_glf_dgk_54b">The formal definition for Web Author
            Component inside the SDK agreement is:<div><i>"“Web Author Component” is a subset of
                Software composed of a server component operating as a service application and a
                client component deployed to a web browser, such as an HTML5 based application,
                where the client component is not installed on the client machine but is in use by
                the client machine while the browser is connected to the server
              component."</i></div></note></li>
      </ol></p>
  </body>
  <topic id="section_qtq_kzb_dbb">
    <title>For End-Users</title>
    <body>
      <p id="p_hlf_dgk_54b">For end-users, the recommended distribution is <b>Oxygen XML Web Author</b> (product).</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="section_fhp_mzb_dbb">
    <title>For Plugin and Framework Developers</title>
    <body>
      <p id="p_ilf_dgk_54b">If you develop frameworks or plugins that provides enhanced functionality for <ph
          keyref="webappProduct"/>, it is recommended to distribute the plugin or framework
        separately from Web Author. They will work with both types of distributions and the end-users can choose:<ul id="ul_szt_vyc_5db">
          <li id="li_jlf_dgk_54b">To install your plugin or framework in Web Author.</li>
          <li id="li_klf_dgk_54b">To use a solution based on Web Author that has the plugin or framework installed by
            default.</li>
          <li id="li_llf_dgk_54b">To use a solution based on Web Author and install the plugin or framework
            themselves.</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p id="p_mlf_dgk_54b">Example of such plugins/frameworks:<ul id="ol_umn_v2c_dbb">
          <li id="li_nlf_dgk_54b">Integration with a terminology database.</li>
          <li id="li_olf_dgk_54b">Adding support to edit embedded SVG snippets.</li>
          <li id="li_plf_dgk_54b">Providing support for a specific XML language.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="section_ov1_c1c_dbb">
    <title>For Integration Developers</title>
    <body>
      <p id="p_qlf_dgk_54b">If you want to integrate <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> into another application (for
        example, a CMS), that you distribute to your end-users, there are several aspects to
        consider when choosing between the two distributions:</p>
      <section id="section_gfj_xyb_dbb">
        <title>Functionality</title>
        <p id="p_rlf_dgk_54b">There are some features that are available in the installable <b>Oxygen XML Web
            Author</b> product requires an additional plugin to be available in the <b>Web Author
            Component</b>. For example, the <i>File Comparison Tool</i> is available by default in
          the <b>Oxygen XML Web Author</b> product, but requires an additional plugin to be
          installed for it to be available in the <b>Web Author Component</b> version.</p>
      </section>
      <section id="section_slw_32c_dbb">
        <title>Legal</title>
        <p id="p_slf_dgk_54b">If you want to use the <b>Web Author Component</b>, you must have your own application
          that is not called <b>Oxygen XML Web Author</b>, but will contain Web Author as a software
          component provided by Syncro Soft. Hence, Syncro Soft does not have a direct legal link
          with your users, you will handle the licensing of your application to your end-users.</p>
        <p id="p_tlf_dgk_54b">For the official details, you can consult the license agreements for both
            distributions:<ol id="ol_tlw_32c_dbb">
            <li id="li_ulf_dgk_54b"><b>Oxygen XML Web Author</b> (product): <xref
                href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/eula_webauthor.html" format="html" scope="external"
              /></li>
            <li id="li_vlf_dgk_54b"><b>Web Author Component</b>: <xref
                href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/sdk_agreement.html" format="html" scope="external"
              /></li>
          </ol></p>
      </section>
      <section id="financial">
        <title>Financial</title>
        <p id="p_wlf_dgk_54b">The prices for <b>Oxygen XML Web Author</b> (product) are listed on the <b>Oxygen</b>
          website: <xref
            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/xml_web_author/buy_oxygen_xml_web_author.html"
            format="html" scope="external"/>.</p>
        <p id="p_xlf_dgk_54b">If you choose to use the <b>Web Author</b> product to distribute as a plugin or
          framework, then you act as a channel reseller, basically reselling <ph
            keyref="webappProduct"/> to your end-users and you must pay Syncro Soft the
          corresponding cost of the license.</p>
        <p id="p_ylf_dgk_54b">The <b>Web Author Component</b> has more flexible pricing alternatives for resellers that
          are negotiated for each contract and include:<ul id="ul_tht_wmx_rcb">
            <li id="li_zlf_dgk_54b">Subscription packages similar to the ones used for the Web Author product, but you
              may get a discount depending on the partnership level (Gold, Silver, Bronze).</li>
            <li id="li_amf_dgk_54b">Solution OEM license.</li>
          </ul></p>
        <p id="p_bmf_dgk_54b">If you choose to integrate the <b>Web Author Component</b> into your application, the
          cost is based on royalties, rather than a cost for the license. That means you do not need
          to pay for the ability to include the component in your application, but when you
          distribute your application you must pay a royalty to Syncro Soft.</p>
      </section>
      <section id="section_tgf_xyb_dbb">
        <title>Customization</title>
        <p id="p_cmf_dgk_54b">It is strongly recommended to implement any customization as a combination of plugins,
          frameworks, and options. If you are using <b>Web Author Component</b>, you can also alter
          the Web Author files, but this is discouraged since those files are not considered API and
          may change in a future version.</p>
      </section>
      <section id="section_ujp_2bc_dbb">
        <title>Deployment</title>
        <p id="p_dmf_dgk_54b">If you want to use <b>Oxygen XML Web Author</b> (product), you can install it using the
          installation kits, then configure the plugins, frameworks, and options using a
          browser-based UI. Alternatively, you can configure <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> to load
          the configuration from a custom directory (<i>Oxygen Data Directory</i>) along with
          desired plugins, frameworks, and options.</p>
        <p id="p_emf_dgk_54b">If you want to use <b>Web Author Component</b>, you can use the <xref
            href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/web-author-component-integration" format="html"
            scope="external">Web Author Component integration project</xref> to build a custom WAR
          file with plugins, frameworks, and options bundled. This WAR file can be deployed in any
          Servlet container (for example, Tomcat).</p>
      </section>
      <section id="section_wxp_ldc_dbb">
        <title>Distribution</title>
        <p id="p_fmf_dgk_54b">If you want to use <b>Oxygen XML Web Author</b> (product), your users must download <ph
            keyref="webappProduct"/> from the <xref
            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/xml_web_author/download_oxygenxml_web_author.html"
            format="html" scope="external">Oxygen website</xref>, while you will distribute your
          plugins/frameworks to your users. You should provide instructions on how to deploy and use
            <ph keyref="webappProduct"/>. Alternatively, you can install and configure it for
          them.</p>
        <p id="p_gmf_dgk_54b">If you want to use <b>Web Author Component</b>, you will distribute the customized WAR
          file.</p>
      </section>
    </body>
  </topic>
</topic>
