<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="wa-plugin-best-practices">
  <title>Best Practices for Plugin Developers</title>
  <body>
    <p>This document is meant to provide tips for those who develop custom plugins to extend the
      functionality of  <ph keyref="webappProduct"/>.</p>
    <section id="section_crz_gvb_mjb">
      <title>Preserving Compatibility for Plugins Developed Prior to New Features Being Added in Web
        Author</title>
      <p>It is possible that functionality added in a custom plugin relies on a certain behavior in
          <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> that could change in future releases. Although the API will
        still be compatible, some functions may not work properly if those specific functions were
        developed in the plugin based on a previous behavior.</p>
      <p>Starting with version 21.1.1, functionality was added to open documents in the Web Author
        visual editor without reloading the entire webpage (for example, topics can be opened from
        the DITA Map view without refreshing the page). Some custom functionality added in plugins
        prior to this release might require a page reload to work properly. For example, custom
        toolbar actions may no longer work as expected, or a side view might display the wrong
        information.</p>
      <p>More specifically, a plugin's JavaScript code is loaded only once (when the web page is
        loaded), while a framework's JavaScript code is loaded each time the visual editor is
        loaded. So, if the plugin extends functionality that is also defined in a framework, the
        code from the plugin will not be loaded if the entire webpage is not refreshed.</p>
      <p>To preserve full compatibility (at the cost of not being able to take advantage of the
        benefits of not requiring a full refresh whenever a document is opened in the editor), there
        is an option called <xref
          href="webapp-admin-page.dita#webapp-admin-page/change-editors-without-reload"
            ><uicontrol>Change editors without page reload</uicontrol></xref> in the <xref
          href="webapp-admin-page.dita"/>. Disabling this option will force the page to be reloaded
        whenever a document is opened. This could be a temporary solution while your custom plugin
        is being updated to account for the new behavior.</p>
      <note type="other" othertype="Common Mistakes">
        <ul id="ul_o5l_tmc_y3b">
          <li>Plugins keep a singleton object to hold information about the current editor. Since it
            is now possible to have multiple editors opened at once, this approach is no longer
            possible.</li>
          <li>Plugins fail to clean up memory and listeners associated with the current editor when
            it is closed. Prior to version 21.1.1, this approach worked fine because the browser tab
            was reloaded anyway.</li>
        </ul>
      </note>
    </section>
    <section id="section_yhn_bnc_y3b">
      <title>Disposing <codeph>AbstratAction</codeph> Implementations</title>
      <p>If a plugin implements the <codeph>AbstractAction</codeph> class, you should consider
        implementing the <codeph>dispose</codeph> method of this class. Typical things to do in the
          <codeph>dispose</codeph> method include:<ol id="ol_hgs_qsc_y3b">
          <li>Dispose any dialog box that was created by the action.</li>
          <li>Reverse any changes to the page DOM outside the editor content.</li>
          <li>Remove any global listeners (i.e. on the <codeph>window</codeph> object).</li>
          <li>Clear timers started using <codeph>setTimeout</codeph> or
            <codeph>setInterval</codeph>.</li>
          <li>Abort or ignore the results of any HTTP request that is in-progress.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_gyt_dtc_y3b">
      <title>Making Custom Side Views React to Editor Changes</title>
      <p>In Web Author, a <codeph>sync.view.ViewRenderer</codeph> class is informed when the current
        editor has changed using the <codeph>editorChanged</codeph> method. This method can be
        called multiple times and the view needs to be updated when a new editor becomes active.</p>
      <p>The view should also reset its state when the current editor is disposed. This situation
        can be identified by listening on the <codeph>sync.api.Editor.EventTypes.DISPOSE</codeph>
        event. </p>
      <p>Although not as popular, Web Author has special editors (or previews) for non-XML files
        (for example, Markdown documents, images, or plain text files). There is also an empty
        editor that simply displays an error message for files that fail to load (for example, files
        that cannot be found on the file server). A <codeph>sync.view.ViewRenderer</codeph>
        implementation is notified anytime a file is loaded in an editor that it supports. By
        default, the only one that is supported by the <codeph>sync.view.ViewRenderer</codeph> is an
        editor with the type <codeph>sync.api.Editor.EditorTypes.AUTHOR</codeph> (the XML visual
        editor). For other editor types, it is disabled. If you want a view to be displayed when a
        file is loaded in any other type of editor (other than the normal XML visual editor), you
        can override the <codeph>supportsEditor</codeph> method in the
          <codeph>sync.view.ViewRenderer</codeph> implementation.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_l4n_1vc_y3b">
      <title>Clearing Information Related to the Current Editor</title>
      <p>If a plugin listens on <codeph>sync.api.Workspace.EventType.BEFORE_EDITOR_LOADED</codeph>
        or <codeph>sync.api.Workspace.EventType.EDITOR_LOADED</codeph> events to store some
        information regarding the current editor, you should make sure to reset this information
        when the editor is disposed.</p>
      <p>Events such as <codeph>sync.api.Workspace.EventType.BEFORE_EDITOR_DISPOSED</codeph> or
          <codeph>sync.api.Workspace.EventType.EDITOR_DISPOSED</codeph> can be used to clear all
        information.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
