<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="wa-rate-limit-filter">
  <title>How to Enable the Rate Limit Filter</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Rate limit filter</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_nqr_dgk_54b">According to the <xref
        href="https://nightlies.apache.org/tomcat/tomcat-9.0.x/docs/config/filter.html#Rate_Limit_Filter"
        format="html" scope="external">Apache Tomcat Documentation</xref>, the <b>Rate Limit
        Filter</b> can help mitigate Denial of Service (DoS) and Brute Force attacks by limiting the
      number of a requests that are allowed from a single IP address within a time window (e.g. 300
      Requests per 60 seconds). This topic explains how to enable the <b>Rate Limit Filter</b>.</p>
    <p id="p_dw4_kkz_t1c">
      <note id="note_sks_kkz_t1c" type="caution">If Tomcat is behind a reverse proxy then you must
        make sure that the Rate Limit Filter sees the client IP address. For example, if you are
        using the <xref
          href="https://nightlies.apache.org/tomcat/tomcat-9.0.x/docs/config/filter.html#Remote_IP_Filter"
          format="html" scope="external">Remote IP Filter</xref>, then the filter mapping for the
        Rate Limit Filter must come <i>after</i> the mapping of the Remote IP Filter to ensure that
        each request has its IP address resolved before the Rate Limit Filter is applied. Failure to
        do so will count requests from different IPs in the same bucket and will result in a
        self-inflicted DoS attack.</note>
    </p>
    <p id="p_txp_pkz_t1c">To enable the Rate Limit Filter:</p>
    <p id="p_dmh_rkz_t1c">
      <ol id="ol_lkz_rkz_t1c">
        <li id="li_mkz_rkz_t1c">Locate the <filepath>web.xml</filepath> file that is used by the
          Tomcat server.</li>
        <li id="li_fqn_tkz_t1c">
          <p id="p_uvc_bmz_t1c">Define the <b>Rate Limit Filter</b>:</p>
          <p id="p_rxt_flz_t1c">You need to define the filter within the
              <filepath>web.xml</filepath> file. This involves specifying the filter name, the
            filter class, and any initialization parameters such as the allowed number of requests
            and the time period for these requests.</p>
          <p id="p_skc_3lz_t1c">The <b>Rate Limit Filter</b> supports the following initialization
            parameters (from the <xref
              href="https://nightlies.apache.org/tomcat/tomcat-9.0.x/docs/config/filter.html#Rate_Limit_Filter"
              format="html" scope="external">Apache Tomcat Documentation</xref>):</p>
          <p id="p_zbf_nlz_t1c">
            <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_imh_rkz_t1c">
              <tgroup cols="2">
                <colspec colnum="1" colname="col1"/>
                <colspec colnum="2" colname="col2"/>
                <thead>
                  <row>
                    <entry><b>Attribute</b></entry>
                    <entry><b>Description</b></entry>
                  </row>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                  <row>
                    <entry>bucketDuration</entry>
                    <entry>The number of seconds in a time bucket. Default is <b>60</b>.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                    <entry>bucketRequests</entry>
                    <entry>The number of requests that are allowed in a time bucket. Default is
                        <b>300</b>.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                    <entry>enforce</entry>
                    <entry>Set to <i>false</i> to allow requests through even when they exceed the
                      maximum allowed per time window. Your application code can still inspect the
                      Request Attribute
                        <codeph>org.apache.catalina.filters.RateLimitFilter.Count</codeph> to
                      retrieve the number of Requests made from that IP within the time window.
                      Default is <b>true</b>.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                    <entry>statusCode</entry>
                    <entry>The status code to return when a request is dropped. Default is
                        <b>429</b>.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                    <entry>statusMessage</entry>
                    <entry>The status message to return when a request is dropped. Default is <b>Too
                        many requests</b>.</entry>
                  </row>
                </tbody>
              </tgroup>
            </table>
          </p>
          <p id="p_jmh_rkz_t1c">Code
            example:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;!-- web.xml -->  

    &lt;filter>
       &lt;filter-name>RateLimitFilter Global&lt;/filter-name>
       &lt;filter-class > org.apache.catalina.filters.RateLimitFilter&lt;/filter-class >
       &lt;init-param>
            &lt;param-name>bucketRequests&lt;/param-name>
            &lt;param-value>100&lt;/param-value>
        &lt;/init-param>
	&lt;init-param>
            &lt;param-name>bucketDuration&lt;/param-name>
            &lt;param-value>60&lt;/param-value>
	&lt;/init-param>
    &lt;/filter></codeblock></p>
        </li>
        <li id="li_lym_ylz_t1c">
          <p id="p_vmp_1mz_t1c">Map the filter to URL patterns:</p>
          <p id="p_rlm_cmz_t1c">You need to map the filter to specific URL patterns within your
            application. This determines which requests are subjected to rate limiting.</p>
          <p id="p_nj3_dmz_t1c">Code
            example:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;!-- web.xml -->

    &lt;filter-mapping>
	&lt;filter-name>RateLimitFilter Global&lt;/filter-name>
	&lt;url-pattern>*&lt;/url-pattern>
    &lt;/filter-mapping></codeblock></p>
        </li>
        <li id="li_h4b_fmz_t1c">Deploy/Restart the Tomcat server.</li>
      </ol>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>