<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE troubleshooting PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Troubleshooting//EN" "troubleshooting.dtd">
<troubleshooting id="wa-synchronizing-with-server">
  <title>Synchronizing with Server Warning Message</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Common problems<indexterm>Synchronizing with server</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Known issues<indexterm>Synchronizing with server</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <troublebody>
    <condition id="problem">
      <title>Problem</title>
      <p>When I try to move the cursor in the document, <ph keyref="product"/> displays a
          <uicontrol>Synchronizing with server</uicontrol> warning message.</p>
    </condition>
    <troubleSolution>
      <cause id="cause">
        <title>Cause</title>
        <p><ph keyref="product"/> has a server-side representation of the document that is
          continuously synchronized with the document that the user edits in the web browser. This
          synchronization is performed using HTTP requests and is asynchronous. </p>
        <p>If the HTTP requests take a high latency, the next user interaction is blocked and a
            <uicontrol>Synchronizing with server</uicontrol> warning message is displayed. </p>
        <p>The most common causes for having a high latency are the following:</p>
        <p>
          <ul id="ul_ftq_vy2_rpb">
            <li>The network connection between the web browser and the server has a high
              latency.</li>
            <li>The CSS used to render the XML document contains complex constructs and cause large
              parts of the document rendering to be invalidated. Some examples of complex constructs
                are:<ul id="ul_b5n_dz2_rpb">
                <li>The <codeph>oxy_xpath()</codeph> CSS function.</li>
                <li> CSS selectors such as: subject selector, sibling selectors, positional
                  selectors (e.g. <codeph>:nth-child</codeph>).</li>
              </ul></li>
            <li>Extensions such as a <codeph>StylesFilter</codeph> that is slow to execute.</li>
          </ul>
        </p>
      </cause>
      <remedy id="solution">
        <title>Solution</title>
        <steps-informal id="steps-informal_gks_pz2_rpb">
          <p id="p_mr4_mbf_rpb">To mitigate this problem, you can try to:<ul id="ul_qdw_rz2_rpb">
              <li id="li_knp_nbf_rpb">Use a faster network connection.</li>
              <li id="li_lnp_nbf_rpb">Rewrite the CSS to use more optimized selectors.</li>
              <li id="li_mnp_nbf_rpb">Optimize the custom extensions that cause the application to
                be slow.</li>
            </ul></p>
        </steps-informal>
      </remedy>
    </troubleSolution>
  </troublebody>
</troubleshooting>
