<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="wa-tags-display-mode">
  <title>Control the Tags Display Mode</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Tags Display Mode</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Control tags display</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>There are several ways to control how the <uicontrol>Tags Display Mode</uicontrol> behaves in
      <ph keyref="webappProduct"/>. This topic covers server defaults and persistence, a URL
      parameter/loading option, UI controls, and a workspace API that applies to all editors.</p>
    <section id="server-defaults">
      <title>Server Defaults and Persistence (options.xml)</title>
      <p>Use the following options in the <filepath>options.xml</filepath> configuration file to
        control the default rendering of tags and how a change persists:</p>
      <p id="p_bzl_bwk_hgc">
        <dl id="dl_czl_bwk_hgc">
          <dlentry id="dlentry_dzl_bwk_hgc">
            <dt><codeph>tagless.editor.tags.display.mode</codeph></dt>
            <dd>
              <p id="p_gzl_bwk_hgc">The default display mode for rendering XML tags in
                  <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode. Users can override this setting from the UI or
                via integration options. Allowed values:</p>
              <ul id="ul-tag-modes-values">
                <li id="li_kzl_bwk_hgc"><codeph>0</codeph> - Full Tags</li>
                <li id="li_ozl_bwk_hgc"><codeph>1</codeph> - No Tags</li>
                <li id="li_rzl_bwk_hgc"><codeph>2</codeph> - Block Tags</li>
                <li id="li_uzl_bwk_hgc"><codeph>3</codeph> - Partial Tags (default)</li>
                <li id="li_xzl_bwk_hgc"><codeph>4</codeph> - Full Tags with Attributes</li>
                <li id="li_a1m_bwk_hgc"><codeph>5</codeph> - Inline Tags</li>
              </ul>
              <p id="p_d1m_bwk_hgc">Example:</p>
              <codeblock outputclass="language-xml" xml:space="preserve">&lt;entry&gt;
  &lt;String&gt;tagless.editor.tags.display.mode&lt;/String&gt;
  &lt;Integer&gt;4&lt;/Integer&gt;
&lt;/entry&gt;     </codeblock>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_s1m_bwk_hgc">
            <dt><codeph>tags.display.mode.persistence</codeph></dt>
            <dd>
              <p id="p_x1m_bwk_hgc">Controls how a user-selected tags mode persists:</p>
              <ul id="ul-tags-persistence">
                <li id="li_abm_bwk_hgc"><codeph>perEditor</codeph> - Resets to the default value
                  whenever a new editor is opened.</li>
                <li id="li_dbm_bwk_hgc"><codeph>perUser</codeph> - The user’s selection is
                  propagated to all open editors and becomes the default for newly opened
                  editors.</li>
              </ul>
              <p id="p_kbm_bwk_hgc">Example:</p>
              <codeblock outputclass="language-xml" xml:space="preserve">&lt;entry&gt;
  &lt;String&gt;tags.display.mode.persistence&lt;/String&gt;
  &lt;String&gt;perUser&lt;/String&gt;
&lt;/entry&gt;       </codeblock>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
      <p>For more details about configuring options, see <xref href="customizing-options.dita"/> and
        the <xref href="../reusables/topics/reusables-cf-wa-waCustom.dita#reusables-cf-wa-waCustom"
          >list of supported server options</xref>.</p>
    </section>

    <section id="url-and-loading-option">
      <title>URL Parameter and Loading Option</title>
      <p>You can set the tags mode per document using the <codeph>tags-mode</codeph> URL parameter or
        by providing a loading option before the editor opens. Supported values:
        <codeph>full-tags-with-attributes</codeph>, <codeph>full-tags</codeph>,
        <codeph>block-tags</codeph>, <codeph>inline-tags</codeph>, <codeph>partial-tags</codeph>,
        <codeph>no-tags</codeph>.</p>
      <p>Example (URL parameter): <codeph>&amp;tags-mode=no-tags</codeph> (see <xref
          href="webauthor-integrate-embedded-launch.dita#webauthor-integrate-embedded-launch/url_parameters"
          >URL parameters</xref>).</p>
      <p>Example (loading option):</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">goog.events.listen(
  workspace,
  sync.api.Workspace.EventType.BEFORE_EDITOR_LOADED,
  function(e) {
    // Set tags mode before the editor is created
    e.options['tags-mode'] = 'full-tags-with-attributes';
  }
);</codeblock>
      <p>Alternative (after the editor is created):</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">goog.events.listen(
  workspace,
  sync.api.Workspace.EventType.EDITOR_LOADED,
  function(e) {
    e.options['tags-mode'] = 'full-tags-with-attributes';
  }
);</codeblock>
      <p>For an introduction to loading options, see
        <xref href="web_author_api_concepts.dita#web_author_api_concepts/loading-option"/>.</p>
    </section>

    <section id="ui-controls">
      <title>User Interface Controls</title>
      <p>Users can choose the tags mode from two places in the UI:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>The <uicontrol>Tags Display Mode</uicontrol> drop-down in the editor breadcrumb.</li>
        <li><menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Tags Display Mode</uicontrol>
          </menucascade> (see <xref href="webapp-overview.dita#webapp-overview/tags-display-mode"
          />).</li>
      </ul>
      <note type="tip">For optimal performance while keeping some tag information visible, the
          <uicontrol>Partial Tags</uicontrol> mode is recommended.</note>
    </section>

    <section id="workspace-api">
      <title>Programmatically Apply to All Editors</title>
      <p>Use the workspace API to change the display mode for all open editors (same effect as
        choosing the option from the UI):</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">// Apply to all editors
workspace.setOption('sentinels.display.mode', 'full-tags-with-attributes');</codeblock>
      <p>See the <xref format="html" scope="external"
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/maven/com/oxygenxml/oxygen-webapp/27.1.0.0/jsdoc/sync.api.Workspace.html"
          >Workspace API</xref> documentation.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="author-display-markup.dita"/>
    <link href="webauthor-integrate-embedded-launch.dita"/>
  </related-links>
 </topic>


