<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE troubleshooting PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA 1.3 Troubleshooting//EN" "troubleshooting.dtd">
<troubleshooting id="wa-troubleshoot-big-load-time">
  <title>Documents Load Slowly</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>big load time</indexterm>
        <indexterm>slow load</indexterm>
        <indexterm>slow open</indexterm>
        <indexterm>takes too long to open</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <troublebody>
    <condition id="problem">
      <title>Problem</title>
      <p>The browser freezes with the loading widget spinning indefinitely when opening a document
        (or it takes too long to open).</p>
    </condition>
    <troubleSolution>
      <cause id="cause">
        <title>Cause</title>
        <p>There are a lot of reasons that can lead to a slow loading time (e.g. slow internet
          connection, bad customization that interferes with the document load process, large sized
          documents, etc).</p>
      </cause>
      <remedy id="solution1">
        <title>Solution</title>
        <steps-informal>
          <p>In the most cases, the slow loading time is caused by a customization (a plugin or
            framework, or a custom option). In this case, it is recommended to try to reproduce the
            problem without any customizations.</p>
        </steps-informal>
      </remedy>
      <remedy id="solution2">
        <title>Alternative Solution 1</title>
        <steps-informal>
          <p>In some cases, the problem can be solved by updating to the latest version to see if
            the problem is reproduced in the latest version.</p>
        </steps-informal>
      </remedy>
      <remedy id="solution3">
        <title>Alternative Solution 2</title>
        <steps-informal>
          <p>Troubleshoot the requests made by the browser:</p>
          <ol id="ol_z2z_mwh_pvb">
            <li>Open a document that takes long to load in Web Author in Google Chrome.</li>
            <li>Open the Developer Tools (e.g. by pressing F12).</li>
            <li>Deselect the <uicontrol>Disable cache</uicontrol>" checkbox in the
                <uicontrol>Network</uicontrol> tab.</li>
            <li>Clear the requests.</li>
            <li>Reload the page.</li>
            <li>Right-click on a request and select <uicontrol>Save all as HAR with
                content</uicontrol>.</li>
            <li>Sort the requests by time (e.g. right-click, Sort, Time).</li>
            <li>Look for the longest requests, inspect the URL, and try to find if they are made
              because of a customization (custom plugin or framework).</li>
            <li>If nothing relevant is found, report the downloaded HAR to the <xref
                href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/technical_support.html" format="html"
                scope="external">Oxygen support team</xref>.</li>
          </ol>
        </steps-informal>
      </remedy>
      <remedy id="solution4">
        <title>Alternative Solution 3</title>
        <steps-informal>
          <p>Troubleshoot the requests made by the server by enabling verbose HTTP(S) logs:</p>
          <ol>
            <li>Enable verbose HTTP logs by following the procedure from <xref
                href="web-author-logs.dita#web-author-logs/section_tgc_1wq_2v">Enabling HTTP Request
                Logging for Debugging</xref>.</li>
            <li>Reproduce the problem.</li>
            <li>Open the server logs by following the procedure from <xref
                href="web-author-logs.dita#web-author-logs/p_zpr_dgk_54b">How to Locate the Log File
                and the Log Configuration File</xref>​.</li>
            <li>See the logs and try to find the ones that take a long time on the server.</li>
            <li>If nothing relevant is found, report the found logs to the <xref
                href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/technical_support.html" format="html"
                scope="external">Oxygen support team</xref>.</li>
          </ol>
        </steps-informal>
      </remedy>
      <remedy id="solution5">
        <title>Alternative Solution 4</title>
        <steps-informal>
          <p>Look for alarming server logs:</p>
          <ol>
            <li>Open the server logs by following the procedure from <xref
                href="web-author-logs.dita#web-author-logs/p_zpr_dgk_54b">How to Locate the Log File
                and the Log Configuration File</xref>.</li>
            <li>Look for <i>"Long request"</i> and <i>"Took long time to compute"</i> and see the
              URL of the requests that take a long time on the server.</li>
            <li>If nothing relevant is found, report the found logs to the <xref
                href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/technical_support.html" format="html"
                scope="external">Oxygen support team</xref>.</li>
          </ol>
        </steps-informal>
      </remedy>
      <remedy id="remedy_t2q_bcs_1dc2455">
        <title>Alternative Solution 5</title>
        <steps-informal id="steps-informal_izj_dcs_1dc">
          <p id="p_x21_fcs_1dc">Sometimes documents load slowly because of the time it takes to
            compute styles. This increases linearly with the size of the document and the size of
            the CSS rules. The CSS rules are mainly contributed by the framework. The styles are
            computed when loading both server-side and client-side.</p>
          <p id="p_y21_fcs_1dc">To see how much time it takes the browser to render the page, follow
            these steps:</p>
          <ol id="ol_z21_fcs_1dc">
            <li id="li_af1_fcs_1dc">Open the <uicontrol>Developer Tools</uicontrol> in Google Chrome
              (e.g. by pressing F12).</li>
            <li id="li_bf1_fcs_1dc">Go to the <uicontrol>Performance</uicontrol> tab.</li>
            <li id="li_cf1_fcs_1dc">Click on <uicontrol>Record</uicontrol> in the top-left
              corner.</li>
            <li id="li_df1_fcs_1dc">Reload the page.</li>
            <li id="li_ef1_fcs_1dc">When the page fully loads, click
              <uicontrol>Stop</uicontrol>.</li>
            <li id="li_ff1_fcs_1dc">Click the <uicontrol>Main</uicontrol> section within the
                <uicontrol>Performance</uicontrol> tab.</li>
            <li id="li_gf1_fcs_1dc">In the bottom part, in the <uicontrol>Summary</uicontrol> tab,
              you should see a circle with the load time split between "Scripting", "Rendering",
              "Paint", "Idle", and "Other".</li>
            <li id="li_ikw_qcs_1dc">Check that "Rendering" time is reasonable.</li>
            <li id="li_yrl_rcs_1dc">If you want to reduce the client-side "Rendering" time:<ol
                id="ol_yhf_gcs_1dc">
                <li id="li_zhf_gcs_1dc">Make as many elements as possible collapsed by default by
                  specifying the <codeph>-oxy-foldable</codeph> and <codeph>-oxy-folded</codeph> CSS
                  rules:<codeblock outputclass="language-css">section {
  -oxy-foldable: true;
}
* {
  -oxy-folded: true;
}</codeblock></li>
                <li id="li_a3f_gcs_1dc">Hide irrelevant elements with the <codeph>display:
                    none</codeph> CSS rule.</li>
              </ol></li>
          </ol>
        </steps-informal>
      </remedy>
      <remedy id="remedy_gf2_ycs_1dc334">
        <title>Alternative Solution 6</title>
        <steps-informal>
          <p id="p_aqd_1ds_1dc">Sometimes documents load slowly even if the main opened document is
            small, because it references many other documents that get expanded by either
              <codeph>xi:include</codeph> XML elements or DITA <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> or
              <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> attributes.</p>
          <p id="p_bqd_1ds_1dc">For each referenced document that gets expanded, the application
            makes a request to an external server to retrieve the document content, thus the network
            speed and latency between the Web Author server and the server from where documents are
            retrieved is critical.</p>
          <p id="p_im2_fds_1dc">To troubleshoot this, enable network logs by following steps in
              <xref href="#./solution4">Alternative Solution 3</xref> and count how many requests
            are made when opening a document and how much time those requests took. After enabling
            network logs, you should see entries like this in the
            logs:<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne">2024-10-01 16:12:31,209 DEBUG [ https-jsse-nio-8443-exec-1 ] org.apache.http.headers - http-outgoing-2 >> GET http://example-domain.oxygenxml.com/webdav/dita-topic.dita HTTP/1.1
2024-10-01 16:12:31,210 DEBUG [ https-jsse-nio-8443-exec-1 ] org.apache.http.headers - http-outgoing-2 >> Accept: application/xml,*/*
2024-10-01 16:12:31,210 DEBUG [ https-jsse-nio-8443-exec-1 ] org.apache.http.headers - http-outgoing-2 >> Accept-Encoding: gzip
2024-10-01 16:12:31,211 DEBUG [ https-jsse-nio-8443-exec-1 ] org.apache.http.headers - http-outgoing-2 >> Host: example-domain.oxygenxml.com
2024-10-01 16:12:31,211 DEBUG [ https-jsse-nio-8443-exec-1 ] org.apache.http.headers - http-outgoing-2 >> Proxy-Connection: Keep-Alive
2024-10-01 16:12:31,211 DEBUG [ https-jsse-nio-8443-exec-1 ] org.apache.http.headers - http-outgoing-2 >> User-Agent: Oxygen XML Editor/26.1
2024-10-01 16:12:31,211 DEBUG [ https-jsse-nio-8443-exec-1 ] org.apache.http.headers - http-outgoing-2 >> Authorization: ****
2024-10-01 16:12:31,223 DEBUG [ https-jsse-nio-8443-exec-1 ] org.apache.http.headers - http-outgoing-2 &lt;&lt; HTTP/1.1 200 OK
2024-10-01 16:12:31,224 DEBUG [ https-jsse-nio-8443-exec-1 ] org.apache.http.headers - http-outgoing-2 &lt;&lt; Date: Tue, 01 Oct 2024 13:12:31 GMT
2024-10-01 16:12:31,225 DEBUG [ https-jsse-nio-8443-exec-1 ] org.apache.http.headers - http-outgoing-2 &lt;&lt; Accept-Ranges: bytes
2024-10-01 16:12:31,225 DEBUG [ https-jsse-nio-8443-exec-1 ] org.apache.http.headers - http-outgoing-2 &lt;&lt; Content-Length: 4259
2024-10-01 16:12:31,226 DEBUG [ https-jsse-nio-8443-exec-1 ] org.apache.http.headers - http-outgoing-2 &lt;&lt; Connection: keep-alive</codeblock></p>
        </steps-informal>
      </remedy>
    </troubleSolution>
  </troublebody>
  <related-links>
    <link href="wa-browser-out-of-memory.dita"/>
  </related-links>
</troubleshooting>
