<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="wa-using-icn">
  <title>Using Web Author with IBM Content Navigator</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>IBM Content Navigator support</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>If you have <xref href="integrate-ibm-plugin.dita">integrated an IBM Content Navigator
        plugin</xref>, to open a file that is supported by <ph keyref="webappProduct"/>, simply
      double-click the file in the ICN user interface or select <uicontrol>Open</uicontrol> from the
      contextual menu. The file will be opened in a new window in the editor. The behavior depends
      on the version status of the document as follows:<ul>
        <li><term>Superseded Versions</term> - The file will be opened in read-only mode.</li>
        <li><term>Released Versions</term> - The file will be opened in read-only mode. Editing the
          file is not allowed unless the file is checked out (you can use the <uicontrol>Check
            out</uicontrol> action on the toolbar). <note>If you plan to make changes to a document,
            you are strongly encouraged to check out the file as soon as possible. In fact, it is
            best to check it out before opening it in <ph keyref="webappProduct"/>.</note></li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>When you save a checked-out file, you actually save the content of the <term>Reserved</term>
      version of the document. When you are happy with your changes, you can use the Web author's
        <uicontrol>Check In</uicontrol> action to check it in.</p>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="integrate-ibm-plugin.dita"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
