<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="wa-using-the-keyboard">
    <title>Working with Web Author Using the Keyboard</title>
    <body>
        <p><ph keyref="webappProduct"/> provides the ability to work with the various features and
      components within the application using the keyboard, without the need to use the mouse.</p>
    <p>The <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> interface has three main regions: <b>toolbar area</b>,
        <b>side views</b>, and the <b>editor</b>. You can use the keyboard to work with those
      regions (and the interface in general) as follows:</p>
    <p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Navigation</dt>
          <dd>
            <ul id="ul_yc4_bcv_vhb">
              <li>You can use <uicontrol><shortcut>Ctrl+F6</shortcut></uicontrol>
                    (<uicontrol><shortcut>Command+F6</shortcut> on OS X</uicontrol>) and
                    <uicontrol><shortcut>Shift+Ctrl+F6</shortcut></uicontrol>
                    (<uicontrol><shortcut>Shift+Command+F6</shortcut> on OS X</uicontrol>) to
                navigate between the three main regions (toolbar area, side views, and the
                editor).</li>
              <li>You can use
                    <uicontrol><shortcut>Tab</shortcut></uicontrol>/<uicontrol><shortcut>Shift+Tab</shortcut></uicontrol>
                and the arrows keys to navigate within each region.<note type="tip">If the cursor is
                  in the address bar and you press <uicontrol><shortcut>Tab</shortcut></uicontrol>,
                  you are presented with an option to skip to the content, and if you press
                      <uicontrol><shortcut>Tab</shortcut></uicontrol> again, you have the option to
                  display accessibility help.</note></li>
            </ul>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Toolbar Area</dt>
          <dd>
            <ul id="ul_ndz_5dv_vhb">
              <li>Use <uicontrol><shortcut>Tab</shortcut></uicontrol> and
                    <uicontrol><shortcut>Shift+Tab</shortcut></uicontrol> to navigate between
                toolbars and the arrows keys to navigate through the actions within each
                toolbar.</li>
              <li>Press <uicontrol><shortcut>Enter</shortcut></uicontrol> to invoke an action.</li>
            </ul>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Side Views</dt>
          <dd>
            <ul id="ul_c53_xdv_vhb">
              <li>When you reach the side view area, use
                  <uicontrol><shortcut>Enter</shortcut></uicontrol> to open the particular view
                  (<uicontrol>Review</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Attributes</uicontrol>,
                  <uicontrol>Validation</uicontrol>).</li>
              <li>Use <uicontrol><shortcut>Tab</shortcut></uicontrol> and
                    <uicontrol><shortcut>Shift+Tab</shortcut></uicontrol> to navigate between areas
                within each view. In the <uicontrol>Attributes</uicontrol> and
                  <uicontrol>Validation</uicontrol> views,
                  <uicontrol><shortcut>Tab</shortcut></uicontrol> and
                    <uicontrol><shortcut>Shift+Tab</shortcut></uicontrol> also navigates between
                items within the views.</li>
              <li>Press <uicontrol><shortcut>Enter</shortcut></uicontrol> to invoke an action.</li>
              <li>In the <uicontrol>Review</uicontrol> view, you can use the Up and Down arrow keys
                to navigate between each review item (tracked change or comment). Once the focus is
                on a particular review item, you can use
                  <uicontrol><shortcut>Enter</shortcut></uicontrol> or
                    <uicontrol><shortcut>Space</shortcut></uicontrol> to shift the focus to the
                particular review item in the document (in the editor area) or you can use
                    <uicontrol><shortcut>Tab</shortcut></uicontrol> and
                    <uicontrol><shortcut>Shift+Tab</shortcut></uicontrol> to navigate between inline
                actions for the particular review item (and
                  <uicontrol><shortcut>Enter</shortcut></uicontrol> to invoke an action).</li>
            </ul>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Editor</dt>
          <dd>
            <ul id="ul_nhy_ygv_vhb">
              <li>When the focus is in the editor area, you can open the <ph keyref="webappProduct"
                /> User Guide at anytime by pressing
                <uicontrol><shortcut>F1</shortcut></uicontrol>.</li>
              <li>To invoke the Content Completion Assistant, press
                    <uicontrol><shortcut>Enter</shortcut></uicontrol>, then type the name of the
                element or other type of proposal or use the arrow keys to navigate through the
                proposals and press <uicontrol><shortcut>Enter</shortcut></uicontrol> again to
                insert the proposal.</li>
              <li>To invoke the contextual menu, press
                  <uicontrol><shortcut>Shift+F10</shortcut></uicontrol>, then use the arrow keys to
                navigate through the items and <uicontrol><shortcut>Enter</shortcut></uicontrol> to
                invoke an action.</li>
              <li>To navigate between text nodes or form controls, use
                    <uicontrol><shortcut>Tab</shortcut></uicontrol> or
                    <uicontrol><shortcut>Shift+Tab</shortcut></uicontrol>.</li>
              <li>To perform search operations, use
                  <uicontrol><shortcut>Ctrl+F</shortcut></uicontrol>
                    (<uicontrol><shortcut>Command+F</shortcut> on OS X</uicontrol>) to open the
                  <xref href="wa-find-replace.dita"><uicontrol>Find/Replace</uicontrol> dialog
                  box</xref>. It provides actions for finding and/or replacing content in the
                current document. Use <uicontrol><shortcut>Tab</shortcut></uicontrol> and
                    <uicontrol><shortcut>Shift+Tab</shortcut></uicontrol> to navigate between fields
                and options, <uicontrol><shortcut>Space</shortcut></uicontrol> to toggle checkbox
                options, and <uicontrol><shortcut>Enter</shortcut></uicontrol> to invoke an
                action.</li>
              <li>To manually check the spelling of a document, press
                    <uicontrol><shortcut>F7</shortcut></uicontrol>. This opens <xref
                  href="wa-manual-spell-check.dita">a spell check dialog box</xref> where you can
                cycle through misspelled words and you have various replace and ignore options. Use
                    <uicontrol><shortcut>Tab</shortcut></uicontrol> and
                    <uicontrol><shortcut>Shift+Tab</shortcut></uicontrol> to navigate between fields
                and actions, the Up/Down arrow keys to navigate between the words in the
                  <uicontrol>Suggestions</uicontrol> list, and
                  <uicontrol><shortcut>Enter</shortcut></uicontrol> to invoke an action.</li>
              <li>You can use common editing shortcuts for performing their usual operations. For
                example, <uicontrol><shortcut>Ctrl+C</shortcut></uicontrol>
                    (<uicontrol><shortcut>Command+C</shortcut> on OS X</uicontrol>) to copy,
                    <uicontrol><shortcut>Ctrl+X</shortcut></uicontrol>
                    (<uicontrol><shortcut>Command+X</shortcut> on OS X</uicontrol>) to cut,
                    <uicontrol><shortcut>Ctrl+V</shortcut></uicontrol>
                    (<uicontrol><shortcut>Command+V</shortcut> on OS X</uicontrol>) to paste,
                    <uicontrol><shortcut>Ctrl+Z</shortcut></uicontrol>
                    (<uicontrol><shortcut>Command+Z on OS X</shortcut></uicontrol>) to undo,
                    <uicontrol><shortcut>Ctrl+Y</shortcut></uicontrol>
                    (<uicontrol><shortcut>Shift+Command+Z </shortcut> on OS X</uicontrol>) to
                redo.</li>
              <li>You can use <uicontrol><shortcut>Alt+Enter</shortcut></uicontrol> to open the
                  <uicontrol>Attributes</uicontrol> view where you can edit attributes and their
                values.</li>
              <li>To quickly add a comment, you can use
                  <uicontrol><shortcut>Ctrl+Alt+M</shortcut></uicontrol>
                    (<uicontrol><shortcut>Command+Alt+M </shortcut> on OS X</uicontrol>).</li>
              <li>To display information about the current element, use
                    <uicontrol><shortcut>Ctrl+F2</shortcut></uicontrol>
                    (<uicontrol><shortcut>Command+F2 </shortcut> on OS X</uicontrol>).<note
                  type="restriction">This shortcut is not supported on Edge or Safari.</note></li>
            </ul>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
    </body>
</topic>
