<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_njb_mvj_b2b">
    <title>Deploying Web Author in WebSphere</title>
    <body>
        <p>Web Author should be deployed in its own server so that it does not share the same JVM
            with other web applications.</p>
        <section id="section_zxp_cwj_b2b">
            <title>Configure the JVM</title>
            <p>
                <ol>
                    <li>In the <term>WebSphere</term> web console, select
                            <uicontrol>Servers</uicontrol> -> <uicontrol>Server Types</uicontrol> ->
                            <uicontrol>WebSphere application servers</uicontrol> and choose the
                        server that will run Web Author</li>
                    <li>Under <uicontrol>Server Infrastructure</uicontrol> expand <uicontrol>Java
                            and Process Management</uicontrol> and click <uicontrol>Process
                            definition</uicontrol>.</li>
                    <li>Under <uicontrol>Additional Properties</uicontrol> section(right), select
                            <uicontrol>Java Virtual Machine</uicontrol></li>
                    <li>In <uicontrol>General Properties</uicontrol> section, put
                            <codeph>256</codeph> for <uicontrol>Initial heap size</uicontrol> and
                            <uicontrol>1536</uicontrol> for <uicontrol>Maximum heap
                        size</uicontrol>.</li>
                    <li>In the <uicontrol>Generic JVM arguments</uicontrol> add the
                            <codeph>-Dcom.ibm.websphere.jaxrs.server.DisableIBMJAXRSEngine=true</codeph>
                        entry. This will disable built-in JAX-RS support ( <xref
                            href="https://www-01.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSAW57_8.0.0/com.ibm.websphere.nd.doc/info/ae/ae/twbs_jaxrs_disable_runtime.html"
                            format="html" scope="external"
                            >https://www-01.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSAW57_8.0.0/com.ibm.websphere.nd.doc/info/ae/ae/twbs_jaxrs_disable_runtime.html</xref>
                        ).</li>
                    <li>Click <uicontrol>Apply</uicontrol> button an then the
                            <uicontrol>Save</uicontrol> link that appears on the top of the
                        page.</li>
                </ol>
            </p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_c1s_kyj_b2b">
            <title>Configure the cookie handling</title>
            <p>Set an option to allow cookie expiry dates with years stored on 4 digits (by default
                the have the millennium problem, i.e. 2084 is represented as '84 which is the same
                as 1984). The option is named <uicontrol>v0CookieDateRFC1123compat</uicontrol> and
                more details about the configuration can be found here <xref
                    href="https://www-01.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SS7K4U_8.5.5/com.ibm.websphere.nd.doc/ae/rrun_chain_httpcustom.html"
                    format="html" scope="external"
                    >https://www-01.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SS7K4U_8.5.5/com.ibm.websphere.nd.doc/ae/rrun_chain_httpcustom.html</xref></p>
            <ol id="ol_jkm_nvj_b2b">
                <li>Select the server as on previous section</li>
                <li>Under <uicontrol>Container Settings</uicontrol> section (right) expand
                        <uicontrol>Web Container Settings</uicontrol> and select <uicontrol>Web
                        container transport chains</uicontrol>.</li>
                <li>Select the <uicontrol>HttpQueueInboundDefaultSecure</uicontrol> entry and then
                        <uicontrol>HTTP inbound channel (HTTP_4)</uicontrol></li>
                <li>Under <uicontrol>Additional Properties</uicontrol> section (right) select
                        <uicontrol>Custom properties</uicontrol> and click the
                        <uicontrol>New</uicontrol> button.</li>
                <li>Add the <uicontrol>v0CookieDateRFC1123compat</uicontrol> property name with the
                    value <codeph>true</codeph>.</li>
                <li>Click the <uicontrol>Save</uicontrol> link that appears on the top of the
                    page.</li>
                <li>Restart the server.</li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <section id="section_hk2_jzj_b2b">
            <title>Install Web Author</title>
            <p>Now, the application can be deployed:</p>
            <ol id="ol_spy_kzj_b2b">
                <li>In WebSphere web console, expand the <uicontrol>Applications</uicontrol> section
                    and <uicontrol>Application Types</uicontrol> under it.</li>
                <li>Select <uicontrol>Websphere enterprise applications</uicontrol>, and uninstall
                    any previous Web Author installations.</li>
                <li>Under <uicontrol>Applications</uicontrol> section select <uicontrol>New
                        Application</uicontrol></li>
                <li>Click on <uicontrol>New Enterprise Application</uicontrol>.</li>
                <li>Chooser for the .war file, press <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol> and wait until the
                    next screen appears.</li>
                <li>Choose <uicontrol>Fast Path </uicontrol>and click <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol>
                    until the 4th step.</li>
                <li>Set the <uicontrol>Context Root</uicontrol> to
                        <codeph>/oxygenxml-web-author/</codeph>.</li>
                <li>Click <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol> at every step and then
                        <uicontrol>Finish</uicontrol></li>
                <li>After the processing is done click the <uicontrol>Save</uicontrol> link that
                    appears on the bottom of the page.</li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <section id="section_n5b_5zj_b2b">
            <title>Configure Web Author</title>
            <p>Set the application class-loader to be <codeph>parent-last</codeph>:<ol
                    id="ol_xpy_kzj_b2b">
                    <li>Go to <uicontrol>Applications > Application Types > WebSphere enterprise
                            applications</uicontrol></li>
                    <li>Choose the Web Author application</li>
                    <li>Under the <uicontrol>Modules</uicontrol> section(right) click
                            <uicontrol>Manage Modules</uicontrol></li>
                    <li>Click on the <uicontrol>oxygenxml-web-author</uicontrol> module</li>
                    <li>Set the <uicontrol>Class loader order</uicontrol> option to Classes loaded
                        with the local class-loader first (parent-last).</li>
                    <li>Click <uicontrol>Apply</uicontrol> and then the <uicontrol>Save</uicontrol>
                        link when it appears.</li>
                    <li>Restart the server.</li>
                </ol></p>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
