<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="wa_https_doc">
  <title>HTTPS Support</title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_wjq_dgk_54b">By default, the Windows, Linux and All Platforms distributions of Web Author handle both HTTP
      and HTTPS traffic. The default certificate used for HTTPS is a self-signed certificate that is
      not trusted by web browsers. However, this certificate is trusted by <ph
        keyref="webappProduct"/> itself when it connects to the internal License Server.<note id="note_xjq_dgk_54b">The
        recommended way to deploy HTTPS is to use an HTTPS-capable reverse-proxy (such as NGINX) in
        front of <ph keyref="webappProduct"/>.</note></p>
    <section id="section_wj2_s2v_lfb">
      <title>Replacing the HTTPS Certificate</title>
      <p id="p_yjq_dgk_54b">To avoid warnings displayed by web browsers, always use a valid certificate. To install a
        new certificate, follow these steps:<ol id="ol_wf1_bhv_lfb">
          <li id="li_zjq_dgk_54b">Obtain the certificate files from a trusted Certificate Authority and convert them to
            PEM format.</li>
          <li id="li_akq_dgk_54b">Save them in a Java Keystore:<ul id="ul_igl_sf1_mfb">
              <li id="li_bkq_dgk_54b"> Build the certificate chain (if needed):
                <codeblock outputclass="language-ini" id="codeblock_ckq_dgk_54b">cat myhost.pem intermediate.pem root.pem > import.pem</codeblock></li>
              <li id="li_dkq_dgk_54b">Convert the private key and certificate files into a PKCS12
                file:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini" id="codeblock_ekq_dgk_54b">openssl pkcs12 -export -in import.pem -inkey myhost.key.pem -name web-author > server.p12</codeblock></li>
              <li id="li_fkq_dgk_54b"> Import the PKCS12 file into Java keystore:
                  <codeblock outputclass="language-ini" id="codeblock_gkq_dgk_54b">keytool -importkeystore -srckeystore server.p12 -destkeystore 
    [install dir]/tomcat/conf/web-author.keystore -srcstoretype pkcs12 -alias web-author </codeblock><note
                  id="note_hkq_dgk_54b">This command will prompt you for two passwords:<ul
                    id="ul_j2y_ldp_fvb">
                    <li><i>The keystore password</i> - The password found in <filepath>[install
                        dir]/tomcat/conf/server.xml</filepath> (in the <codeph>keystorePass</codeph>
                      attribute).</li>
                    <li><i>The key password</i> - One option is to provide the same password as for
                      the keystore. If you want to specify a different password, you should also
                      configure it in the <filepath>[install dir]/tomcat/conf/server.xml</filepath>
                      file by adding it in the <codeph>keyPass</codeph> attribute on the
                        <codeph>Certificate</codeph> element.</li>
                  </ul></note>
              </li>
            </ul></li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_pst_2fv_lfb">
      <title>Redirecting HTTP to HTTPS</title>
      <p id="p_ikq_dgk_54b">To strengthen the security of your deployment, you should make sure all users connect to
        Web Author using HTTPS. To redirect all HTTP traffic to HTTPS, you have to <xref
          href="webauthor-set-system-property.dita">set the
            <codeph>oxygen.ssl.redirect.domain</codeph> system property</xref> to the domain and
        port of your server.</p>
      <p id="p_jkq_dgk_54b"><b>Example:</b><codeblock outputclass="language-ini" id="codeblock_kkq_dgk_54b">-Doxygen.ssl.redirect.domain=web-author-domain:8443</codeblock></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_g5f_sfv_lfb">
      <title>Removing the Web Author-specific Keystore</title>
      <p id="p_lkq_dgk_54b">By default, <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> is configured to consider its HTTPS certificate as
        trusted when presented by any server it connects to. This helps you get started quickly and
        without errors before installing a trusted certificate. Once you configured <ph
          keyref="webappProduct"/> with a trusted certificate, you should <xref
          href="webauthor-set-system-property.dita">remove the
            <codeph>oxygen.ssl.trusted.keystore</codeph> system property</xref>.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
