<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="wa_inserting_xml_elements">
  <title>Inserting XML Elements</title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_f5s_dgk_54b">In <ph keyref="product"/>, XML elements can be inserted by using the <term>Content Completion
        Assistant</term> or by using an <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode action that can be added
      to the toolbar, contextual menu, or <term>Content Completion Assistant</term>.</p>
    <section id="section_or4_ssy_dlb">
      <title>Inserting Elements Using Content Completion</title>
      <p id="p_g5s_dgk_54b">When using the content completion feature, a list of elements that are valid at the current
        location within the document is displayed. However, showing only the valid elements might be
        limiting in some situations. </p>
      <p id="p_h5s_dgk_54b">For example, suppose you just entered the <xmlelement>title</xmlelement> element for a
          <xmlelement>section</xmlelement> and you want to insert a <xmlelement>table</xmlelement>.
        The cursor is still located inside the <xmlelement>title</xmlelement> element and the
          <xmlelement>table</xmlelement> element is not valid at this position. However, it is valid
        immediately after the <codeph>title</codeph>. </p>
      <p id="p_i5s_dgk_54b">To make it easier to insert elements in such cases, <ph keyref="product"/> displays all the
        elements, even if invalid at the current position. If an invalid element is chosen, it
        inserts the element in a <term>Schema-Aware</term> mode. This means that some strategies are
        applied to keep the document valid (for example, inserting the element in a nearby position
        or inserting a required ancestor).</p>
      <p id="p_j5s_dgk_54b">Various aspects of the <xref href="wa-cc-configuration.dita">Content Completion assistant
          can be configured</xref> using either configuration files or the JavaScript or Java
        API.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_bzb_vsy_dlb">
      <title>Inserting Elements Using Author Actions</title>
<<<<<<< HEAD
      <p id="p_k5s_dgk_54b">An <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode action can be added to the toolbar, contextual menu,
        or <term>Content Completion Assistant</term>. Such an action has one or more operation
        modes. The evaluation of an XPath expression activates an operation mode. The first
        activated operation mode is executed when you trigger the action. </p>
      <p id="p_z5v_nlx_h5b">An <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode action can be configured using the
          <xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-editor/topics/the-document-type-dialog.html"
=======
      <p id="p_k5s_dgk_54b">An <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode action can be added to the
        toolbar, contextual menu, or <term>Content Completion Assistant</term>. Such an action has
        one or more operation modes. The evaluation of an XPath expression activates an operation
        mode. The first activated operation mode is executed when you trigger the action. </p>
      <p>An <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode action can be configured using the <xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-editor/topics/the-document-type-dialog.html"
>>>>>>> 50600fa621b62eaddc7e308ac6539ce61e0a796d
          format="html" scope="external"><uicontrol>Document Type Configuration</uicontrol> dialog
          box</xref> in an <uicontrol>Oxygen XML Editor</uicontrol> or <uicontrol>Oxygen XML
          Author</uicontrol> application.</p>
      <p id="p_l5s_dgk_54b">A simple action to insert an element can use a single operation mode with
          <codeph>Activation XPath</codeph> set to <b>true</b>. The operation is
          <codeph>InsertFragmentOperation</codeph> and the <codeph>schemaAware</codeph> parameter
        should be set to <b>true</b>. With this setup, the action inserts the element in the
        expected position while keeping the document valid.</p>
      <p id="p_m5s_dgk_54b">If you identify some cases where the action behavior is less than optimal, you can add an
        another operation mode that does any of the following:</p>
      <p id="p_n5s_dgk_54b"><ul id="ul_s2s_lw5_dlb">
          <li id="li_o5s_dgk_54b">Has the <uicontrol>Activation XPath</uicontrol> configured to match the particular XML
            structure where you observe the undesired behavior. You can use some <ph
              keyref="product"/>-specific <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/22.0/ug-editor/topics/xpath-activation-expressions.html"
              format="html" scope="external">extension functions</xref> such as the
              <codeph>oxy:allows-child-element()</codeph> function.</li>
          <li id="li_p5s_dgk_54b">Uses the <codeph>InsertFragmentOperation</codeph> operation. </li>
          <li id="li_q5s_dgk_54b">Has the <codeph>schemaAware</codeph> parameter set to <b>false</b>. This allows you to
            precisely control the insertion point.</li>
          <li id="li_r5s_dgk_54b">Uses the <codeph>insertLocation</codeph> and <codeph>insertPosition</codeph>
            parameters to specify the desired insertion location.</li>
          <li id="li_s5s_dgk_54b">Configures the <codeph>fragment</codeph> parameter to the actual fragment to be
            inserted. This fragment should contain:<ul id="ul_c3r_ww5_dlb">
              <li id="li_t5s_dgk_54b">All the ancestors that need to be inserted to make the document valid.</li>
              <li id="li_u5s_dgk_54b">All the required descendants of the element.</li>
              <li id="li_v5s_dgk_54b">All the required attributes of the element.</li>
            </ul></li>
        </ul>The original operation mode should be kept later in the list as a fallback.</p>
      <p id="p_w5s_dgk_54b">In more complicated cases, you may need to identify a particular cursor position that is
        impossible to represent in XPath (for example, when the cursor is between the title and the
        body of a topic. For these cases, you can use a more relaxed XPath such as
          <codeph>.[local-name() = 'topic']</codeph> and use a custom implementation of the Java
          <codeph>AuthorOperation</codeph> interface.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_rmh_2vy_dlb">
      <title>Showing a Dialog Box to Configure the Newly Inserted Element</title>
      <p id="p_x5s_dgk_54b">To determine how to configure an element before it is inserted, it is possible to require
        user input. For example, to insert a link, the user needs to choose the link target. If you
        want to prompt the user for input, you can use the <xref
          href="webapp_editor_variables.dita#webapp_editor_variables/edVar-ask"><i>${ask}</i> editor
          variable</xref> or use the JavaScript API.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_gmc_x12_flb">
      <title>Inserting the Correct Element Depending on the DITA Specialization</title>
      <p id="p_y5s_dgk_54b">In DITA, the name of an image or link element depends on the specialization. The default
        toolbar actions to insert such elements use an operation such as
          <codeph>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.dita.topic.InsertImageOperation</codeph>. These operations
        are usually able to determine which valid element to insert depending on the DITA
        specialization or the cursor position.</p>
      <p id="p_z5s_dgk_54b">The source code for these operations is available in the <i>Oxygen SDK Maven</i> repository
        with the following details:<ul id="ul_eky_yb2_flb">
          <li id="li_avs_dgk_54b"><b>groupId</b> - <codeph>com.oxygenxml</codeph></li>
          <li id="li_bvs_dgk_54b"><b>artifactId</b> - <codeph>oxygen</codeph></li>
          <li id="li_cvs_dgk_54b"><b>classifier</b> - <codeph>defaultFrameworkSources</codeph></li>
        </ul>For example, for version <codeph>22.0.0.0</codeph> of the SDK, the archive with the
        sources can be found at: <xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/maven/com/oxygenxml/oxygen/22.0.0.0/oxygen-22.0.0.0-defaultFrameworksSources.jar"
          format="jar" scope="external"/>.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
  