<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="web-author-docker">
  <title>Deploying Web Author in a Docker Container</title>
  <body>
    <p>It is a common practice to use Docker containers to deploy <ph keyref="product"/>. This topic
      contains some advice on how to create a custom Docker image.</p>
    <p>Here is an sample of a Docker file that you can use as an
      example:<codeblock id="codeblock_mpl_fwp_55b" outputclass="language-bourne">FROM tomcat:9.0.65-jre11-temurin-focal

# If behind a proxy, make sure you configure Docker
# https://docs.docker.com/network/proxy/

# Make sure to update and also install wget
RUN apt-get update &amp;&amp; apt-get -y install wget

# Now download the web author war
RUN wget https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/WebAuthor/war/oxygenxml-web-author.war

RUN mv oxygenxml-web-author.war /usr/local/tomcat/webapps/

# Expose the Tomcat port
EXPOSE 8080 
# Expose the logs
VOLUME /usr/local/tomcat/logs/
VOLUME /usr/local/tomcat/work/Catalina/localhost/oxygenxml-web-author</codeblock>To build the
      Docker image,
      use:<codeblock id="codeblock_dlw_s1q_55b" outputclass="language-bourne">docker build -t web-author .</codeblock></p>
    <p>Before starting a container from this image, make sure you create volumes for the data
      directory and
      logs:<codeblock id="codeblock_ozr_k1q_55b" outputclass="language-bourne">docker volume create web-author-logs
docker volume create web-author-data</codeblock></p>
    <p>Then, start it with this
      command:<codeblock id="codeblock_g4s_41q_55b" outputclass="language-bourne">docker run -p 8080:8080 --mount source=web-author-data,target=/usr/local/tomcat/work/Catalina/localhost/oxygenxml-web-author --mount source=web-author-logs,target=/usr/local/tomcat/logs  web-author</codeblock></p>
    <section id="section_gnv_qhs_xrb">
      <title>HTTP Configuration</title>
      <p>The HTTP/HTTPS ports of the container must be exposed.</p>
      <p>One of the benefits of using Docker containers is that you can deploy multiple instances of
          <ph keyref="product"/> to provide high availability. In this case, you may want to consult
        our documentation about <xref href="webapp-loadbalancing.dita">running <ph
            keyref="product"/> behind a load balancer</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_yrk_5fs_xrb">
      <title>Configuration</title>
      <p>The server configuration that can be changed using the administration page is stored in the
          <xref href="wa-oxygen-data-dir.dita">Data Directory</xref>. If you want to
        persist some of this configuration when containers are removed, you can map parts of this
        directory it to a volume.</p>
      <p>Alternatively, you can add the initial configuration of the server as part of the file
        system of the Docker image.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_tg2_vgs_xrb">
      <title>Licensing</title>
      <p>The license server has some protections built in to prevent users from duplicating a
        deployment with the same license. As a result,  deploying the license server in a Docker
        container is not supported.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_u5f_zgs_xrb">
      <title>Logging</title>
      <p><ph keyref="product"/> is configured to log to both standard output and to a file so that
        you are able to use the standard Docker commands to obtain the logs.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
