<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="web-author-share-review-link">
  <title>Sharing a Link to a Document for Review</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Sharing documents</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Sharing DITA maps</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>To collect feedback on a particular document (for example, feedback from a subject matter
      expert), you can copy the URL in the address bar of your browser and share it with the
      reviewer. </p>
    <section id="section_hp4_nd2_fmb">
      <title>Sharing the Context DITA Map</title>
      <p>If you share a DITA documents that uses keys, you may want to make sure that your
        collaborator will see the keys resolved to the same content. There are several approaches to
        ensure this:<ul id="ul_vgx_wf2_fmb">
          <li>Instruct your collaborator to choose the correct map using the <uicontrol>Show DITA
              Map view</uicontrol> button on the DITA toolbar.</li>
          <li>Use the <xref
              href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/web-author-sample-plugins/tree/master/web-author-impose-ditamap"
              format="html" scope="external"><b>Impose DITA Map</b> plugin</xref> to automatically
            impose the correct DITA map so that you will not have to construct the URL by hand
            before sharing it.</li>
          <li>Generate <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-waCustom/webauthor-integrate-embedded-launch.dita"
              format="html" scope="external"><b>Oxygen XML WebHelp</b> with edit links</xref> and
            share the link to the generated HTML page. There will be an <uicontrol>Edit
              Online</uicontrol> link near each topic title that has the correct DITA map
            configured.</li>
          <li>You can share the URL to the DITA map directly and when opened in the editor, the DITA
            map contains references to topics.</li>
          <li>Manually construct a <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-waCustom/webauthor-integrate-embedded-launch.dita"
              format="html" scope="external">shareable URL</xref> that includes the DITA map pre-set
            and share that instead.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
