<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="web_author_api_concepts">
    <title>Web Author API Concepts</title>
    <body>
        <p id="p_k2t_dgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> is a web application with two components:</p>
    <p id="p_l2t_dgk_54b">
      <ul id="ul_kdy_twy_dlb">
        <li id="li_m2t_dgk_54b">The back-end is implemented in Java. It stores the DOM model of the document and is
          responsible for advanced processing of the XML document (such as validation and executing
          operations whose behavior is influenced by the document schema).</li>
        <li id="li_n2t_dgk_54b">The front-end is implemented in JavaScript. It renders the user interface of the editor,
          provides basic access to the document model, and makes requests to the back-end to modify
          the document in response to user actions. Some performance-sensitive actions (such as
          typing) are first executed on the front-end and then the result is synchronized with the
          back-end.</li>
      </ul>
    </p>
    <p id="p_o2t_dgk_54b">Each of the components offers an API that can be used from a framework or plugin.</p>
    <section id="section_opf_4xy_dlb">
      <title>JavaScript API Concepts</title>
      <p id="p_p2t_dgk_54b">
        <dl id="dl_q2t_dgk_54b">
          <dlentry id="dlentry_r2t_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Workspace</dt>
            <dd>The <codeph>workspace</codeph> global variable is the entry point for the JavaScript
              API. It provides access to functions and objects for that particular browser tab (or
                <codeph>iframe</codeph> in case of an integration). The <term>workspace</term> has
              side-views that can be configured.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_s2t_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Editor</dt>
            <dd>In a <term>workspace</term>, one or more editors are loaded. The <term>editor</term>
              represents the area where the document to be edited is rendered.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_t2t_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Editing Support</dt>
            <dd>When an <term>Editor</term> is loaded, depending on the type of document, an
                <term>editing support</term> is created. It can be one of the following:<p id="p_u2t_dgk_54b">
                <ul id="ul_ksc_tyy_dlb">
                  <li id="li_v2t_dgk_54b"><b>Author mode editing support</b> - Used for XML documents to provide WYSIWYG
                    editing features.</li>
                  <li id="li_w2t_dgk_54b"><b>Markdown editing support</b> - Used to edit Markdown documents.</li>
                  <li id="li_x2t_dgk_54b"><b>Plain-text editing support</b> - Used to provide read-only access to text
                    documents.</li>
                  <li id="li_y2t_dgk_54b"><b>Image editing support</b> - Used to provide view-only access to
                    images.</li>
                  <li id="li_z2t_dgk_54b"><b>Diff editing support</b> - Used by the <i>File Comparison</i> plugin to
                    display two documents side-by-side.</li>
                  <li id="li_aft_dgk_54b"><b>Custom editing supports</b> - Can be implemented for other use-cases.</li>
                </ul>
              </p><p id="p_bft_dgk_54b">If a document fails to load, no editing support is created.</p></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="loading-option">
            <dt>Loading Option</dt>
            <dd>Configuration options that can be specified before the editor loading is attempted,
              for
                example:<codeblock outputclass="language-javascript" id="codeblock_cft_dgk_54b">goog.events.listen(workspace, sync.api.Workspace.EventType.BEFORE_EDITOR_LOADED,
  function(e) {
    if (e.options.url.endsWith('.dita')) {
      // DITA files will be opened in no-tags mode.
      e.options['tags-mode'] = 'no-tags';
    }
});</codeblock><p id="p_dft_dgk_54b">For
                a list of available options, see the <xref
                  keyref="jscript_api_workspace_LoadingOptions" format="dita">JavaScript API
                  documentation</xref>.</p></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_eft_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Action</dt>
            <dd>An action is a JavaScript object that extends the
                <codeph>sync.actions.AbstractAction</codeph> class that implements a behavior and is
              configured with rendering information such as icons or text descriptions. Some actions
              are automatically constructed from the framework configuration and others are
              explicitly implemented in JavaScript extensions. Such an action can be added to the
              toolbar, contextual menu, or <term>Content Completion Assistant</term>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_fft_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Operation</dt>
            <dd>An operation is a Java implementation of the <xref
                href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/ecss/extensions/api/AuthorOperation.html"
                format="html" scope="external"
                  ><codeph>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.AuthorOperation</codeph></xref> interface. It
              can be invoked asynchronously from the JavaScript code using
                <codeph>sync.api.ActionsManager#invokeOperation</codeph>. This is the primary way to
              communicate between JavaScript API and Java API.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_gft_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Enhancer</dt>
            <dd>An <term>Enhancer</term> is a JavaScript class used to make a custom form-control
              rendered on the back-end interactive. </dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_zzh_41z_dlb">
      <title>Java API Concepts</title>
      <p id="p_hft_dgk_54b">
        <dl id="dl_ift_dgk_54b">
          <dlentry id="dlentry_jft_dgk_54b">
            <dt>PluginWorkspace</dt>
            <dd>An object instance of
                <codeph>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.webapp.access.WebappPluginWorkspace</codeph>
              that can be used to make global customizations that affect all users (such as
              registering a <codeph>URIResolver</codeph>).</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_kft_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Editing Session</dt>
            <dd>Corresponds to an XML document opened in a browser tab. It is the back-end
              counterpart of an <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode editing support.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_lft_dgk_54b">
            <dt>System ID</dt>
            <dd>The <xref href="oxy-url.dita">OXY-URL</xref> of a the current document.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_mft_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Context ID</dt>
            <dd>A token that uniquely identifies a user session connected to the <ph
                keyref="product"/> back-end. It is stored in the <codeph>userInfo</codeph> part of
              the System ID and is the same for all documents opened in the same user session.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_nft_dgk_54b">
            <dt>User Session</dt>
            <dd>The session established between the user's browser and the <ph keyref="product"/>
              back-end using a session cookie.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_oft_dgk_54b">
            <dt>AuthorDocumentModel</dt>
            <dd>An instance of the
                <codeph>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.webapp.AuthorDocumentModel</codeph>, the
              server-side model of the current XML document.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_pft_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Operation</dt>
            <dd>An operation is a Java implementation of the <xref
                href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/ecss/extensions/api/AuthorOperation.html"
                format="html" scope="external"
                  ><codeph>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.AuthorOperation</codeph></xref> interface. An
              operation makes an atomic edit of the document. Some operations may extend
                <codeph>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.webapp.AuthorOperationWithResult</codeph> to
              return a result when invoked by JavaScript code.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_qft_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Framework</dt>
            <dd>A set of files that configure the editor for a particular XML vocabulary. The main
              file of a framework is the framework descriptor and has a
                <filepath>.framework</filepath> file extension. This descriptor has references to
              additional configuration files. </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_rft_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Form Control</dt>
            <dd>An embedded widget that can be used to provide specialized editing interfaces for
              XML attributes and elements. Some examples are combo-boxes, radio buttons, or date
              pickers.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_sft_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Styles</dt>
            <dd><ph keyref="product"/> uses CSS to render a document. After matching CSS rules
              against an element, a set of styles are determined for rendering the element .</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_tft_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Pseudo-element</dt>
            <dd>Boxes whose rendering can be configured using CSS, but do not appear in the XML
              document. For
              example:<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_uft_dgk_54b">note:before {
  content: "Note:";
}</codeblock></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_vft_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Pseudo-class</dt>
            <dd>A flag that can be set on an XML node while the document is opened in the editor.
              They are not serialized in the XML document but can be used in CSS selectors. For
              example:<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_wft_dgk_54b">colspecs:closed > * {
  display: none;
}</codeblock></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_xft_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Schema-Aware</dt>
            <dd>A mode of operation where schema information is taken into account by editing
              functions (for example, when the user tries to insert an element in an invalid
              position, the editor inserts the element in a nearby position where it is valid).</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
    </section>
    </body>
</topic>
