<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="webauthor-integrating-file-storage">
  <title>Integrating Web Author with a File Storage Service</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Integration with a file storage service</indexterm>
        <indexterm>File storage service integration</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_otr_dgk_54b">If you want content contributors to be able to open and save files, the first requirement to
      use <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> is to integrate it with your file storage system. There are
      several levels of complexity, depending on the file storage service you plan to use.</p>
    <section id="section_ljz_p5p_1z">
      <title>Integration via Configuration</title>
      <p id="p_ptr_dgk_54b">An integration with <xref href="webapp-integrate-github-plugin.dita"
          >Git, GitHub</xref>, <xref href="webapp-integrate-sharepoint-plugin.dita"
          >SharePoint</xref>, or a <xref href="wa-integrate-CMIS.dita">generic CMIS connector</xref>
        is just a matter of changing the configuration of the server. The same is true for any CMS
        that has <xref href="webapp-integrate-webdav-plugin.dita">WebDAV</xref> support. It can be
        done by a system administrator using the <xref
          href="webapp-admin-page.dita#webapp-admin-page">web-based <uicontrol>Administration
            Page</uicontrol></xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_pgl_w5p_1z">
      <title>Integration via REST API</title>
      <p id="p_qtr_dgk_54b">With this approach, you extend your file storage service to expose a
          <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/web-author-rest-plugin" format="html"
          scope="external">simple REST API</xref> that can be processed by <ph
          keyref="webappProduct"/>. To use this approach, you need software development skills and
        access to the API documentation of the file storage service. It is the best choice for CMS
        developers and for companies with in-house file storage systems.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="integration-custom-plugin">
      <title>Integration via a Custom Plugin</title>
      <p id="p_rtr_dgk_54b">If you are developing a CMS or your integration has complex
        requirements, sometimes it makes sense to use the low-level Java API directly to implement
        the integration. <note type="important" id="note_str_dgk_54b">The recommended approach is to
          start with the <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/web-author-rest-connector"
            format="html" scope="external">REST API</xref> for a first version of the integration
          and if it proves to be insufficient, then you can switch to using a custom plugin.
        </note></p>
      <p id="p_ttr_dgk_54b">One of the biggest challenges in implementing support for a file storage system is the user
        authentication. For information about CMS authentication, see <xref
          href="how_to_cms_auth.dita#how_to_cms_auth"/> and <xref
          href="webauthor-user-management-integration.dita#webauthor-user-management-integration"
        />.</p>
      <p id="p_utr_dgk_54ertg">To see the detailed steps required to implement a connector from
        scratch, see the <xref href="web-author-custom-connection-to-a-file-server.dita">Integrate
          Web Author with a File Storage Service with a Custom Plugin</xref> topic.</p>
      <p id="p_utr_dgk_54b">This is the approach used to implement the connector for <xref
          href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/webapp-webdav-integration" format="html"
          scope="external">WebDAV</xref> and for the <xref
          href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/web-author-rest-connector" format="html"
          scope="external">REST API</xref>. The source code of these connectors is available on
        GitHub and can be used as a source of inspiration.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
