<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="webauthor-svn-workflow">
    <title>File Storage Integration: SVN Workflow Example</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Integration with a file storage service<indexterm>SVN
          example</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>SVN example for file storage service integration</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
    <body>
    <p id="p_vtr_dgk_54b">This topic presents an example for a workflow that can be implemented when the content is
      stored on an SVN server. </p>
    <section id="section_syz_hlq_1z">
      <title>One-time Setup</title>
    </section>
    <p id="p_wtr_dgk_54b">
      <ol id="ol_nfw_3lq_1z">
        <li id="li_xtr_dgk_54b">You need an SVN server, whose URL is something like this:
            <codeph>http://example.com/svn/</codeph>.<note type="tip" id="note_ytr_dgk_54b">If you do not have an SVN
            server, VisualSVN is an option with a simple setup process.</note></li>
        <li id="li_ztr_dgk_54b">
          <p id="p_a5r_dgk_54b">Enable WebDAV support in the SVN server.</p>
          <p id="p_b5r_dgk_54b">This can be done by enabling <xref
              href="http://svnbook.red-bean.com/en/1.7/svn.webdav.autoversioning.html" format="html"
              scope="external"><codeph>SVNAutoversioning</codeph></xref> in your server
            configuration.
            <codeblock outputclass="language-ini" id="codeblock_c5r_dgk_54b">&lt;Location /svn>
  DAV svn
  SVNPath /usr/local/repo/
  ...
  SVNAutoversioning on
  ...
&lt;/Location></codeblock></p>
          <p id="p_d5r_dgk_54b">Web Author will then be able to save files in your SVN repository by creating a commit
            with a default message. Note that Web Author will only commit on review branches so
            there's no reason to be concerned when doing this.</p>
        </li>
        <li id="li_e5r_dgk_54b">Restrict Web Author to connect only to the folder with review branches. Do this by
          configuring the WebDAV connector with an <xref
            href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/webapp-webdav-integration#imposed-urls" format="html"
            scope="external">Imposed URL</xref> pointing to the desired folder, for example
            <codeph>http://example.com/svn/branches/review/</codeph>. </li>
      </ol>
    </p>
    <section id="section_uxk_zlq_1z">
      <title>Review Workflow</title>
      <p id="p_f5r_dgk_54b">Suppose you have a project that contains documents you want to be reviewed by others and
        suppose its URL is: <codeph>http://example.com/svn/trunk/ug/</codeph>. Also, suppose that
        your organization uses a WebDAV server for file storage and the <term>Oxygen SVN
          Client</term> for versioning. The following procedure is an example of what your workflow
        procedure might be:<ol id="ol_upz_gmq_1z">
          <li id="li_g5r_dgk_54b">Create a branch of the project in the review branches folder. You can do this either
            by using the <term>Oxygen SVN Client</term> or the following command
            line:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini" id="codeblock_h5r_dgk_54b">svn cp http://example.com/svn/trunk/ug/ http://example.com/svn/branches/review/ug-1/</codeblock></li>
          <li id="li_i5r_dgk_54b">Identify the URL for the file that needs to be reviewed by opening the file from the
              <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-webauthor/topics/webapp-create-open-docs.html"
              format="html" scope="external"><uicontrol>WebDAV</uicontrol> tab in the
                <uicontrol>Dashboard</uicontrol></xref> and copy the URL from the browser's address
              bar.<note type="tip" id="note_j5r_dgk_54b">You can also configure the URL to control or streamline the
              review process by specifying certain parameters. For more information, see <xref
                href="webauthor-integrate-embedded-launch.dita#webauthor-integrate-embedded-launch"
              />.</note></li>
          <li id="li_k5r_dgk_54b">Send the URL to the reviewers who will simply click the link to open the file in Web
            Author where they can make changes or add comments.<note id="note_l5r_dgk_54b">Web Author leverages SVN
              locking to avoid conflicts between multiple reviewers.</note></li>
          <li id="li_m5r_dgk_54b">Once the reviewers are done editing the files, you can merge the branch back into the
            trunk and commit. The command line would
            be:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini" id="codeblock_n5r_dgk_54b">svn merge --reintegrate http://example.com/svn/branches/review/ug-1/</codeblock></li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    </body>
</topic>
