<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="webapp-supported-options">
  <title>Oxygen Standalone Options Supported by Web Author</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Oxygen options supported by Web Author</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="webappProduct"/> supports some of the options used by Oxygen XML Editor/Author.
      The supported options are applied for all Web Author users. The options are stored in an XML
      file with the following
      format:<codeblock outputclass="xml">&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;serialized version="18.1" xml:space="preserve">
  &lt;map>   
    &lt;entry>
      &lt;String>author.show.comments&lt;/String>
      &lt;Boolean>true&lt;/Boolean>       
    &lt;/entry>
  &lt;/map>
&lt;/serialized></codeblock>For
      each option, an additional entry should be added in this file.</p>
    <table id="table_rcr_qpy_2x" colsep="1" rowsep="1" frame="all">
      <title><b>Oxygen XML Author Options Supported in <ph keyref="webappProduct"/></b></title>
      <tgroup cols="3">
        <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.8*"/>
        <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
        <colspec colname="newCol3" colnum="3" colwidth="1.8*"/>
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry>Key</entry>
            <entry>Type</entry>
            <entry>Description</entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry>dita.ot.directory</entry>
            <entry>String</entry>
            <entry>The directory path to the default DITA OT installation.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>track.changes.initial.state</entry>
            <entry>Integer</entry>
            <entry>Option for <term>track changes</term> initial state.<ul>
                <li><b>0</b> - Initial state stored in document.</li>
                <li><b>1</b> - <term>Track changes</term> always on.</li>
                <li><b>2</b> - <term>Track changes</term> always off.</li>
              </ul></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>automatically.accept.certificates</entry>
            <entry>boolean</entry>
            <entry>Option that controls if Oxygen will accept all HTTPS certificates.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>additional.frameworks.directories</entry>
            <entry><xref href="#webapp-supported-options/example-entry" format="dita">See example
                entry below</xref></entry>
            <entry>
              <p>An array of java.lang.String objects representing paths to the additional
                  <term>frameworks</term> folders (may also contain editor variables). </p>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>WEBAPP_SHOW_ADMIN_PAGE_LINK</entry>
            <entry>boolean</entry>
            <entry>"True" to display the admin page link on the dashboard.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>author.convert.external.content.on.paste</entry>
            <entry>boolean</entry>
            <entry>
              <p>Option that controls whether or not the content pasted in Author mode should be
                converted to match the destination styles.</p>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>author.convert.external.content.space.preserve</entry>
            <entry>boolean</entry>
            <entry>
              <p>Option that controls whether or not the content pasted in
                  <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode should be converted to match the destination
                styles in <xref keyref="glossentry_space-preserved-element"><term>space-preserved
                    elements</term></xref>.</p>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>http.read.timeout.seconds</entry>
            <entry>Integer</entry>
            <entry>An integer number that configures the timeout used when waiting for an HTTP
              request.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>http.proxy.system</entry>
            <entry>boolean</entry>
            <entry>"True" to detect HTTP proxy from system.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>http.proxy.set</entry>
            <entry>boolean</entry>
            <entry>HTTP proxy uses manual configuration.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>http.proxy.port</entry>
            <entry>Integer</entry>
            <entry>Proxy port.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>http.proxy.host</entry>
            <entry>String</entry>
            <entry>Proxy hostname or IP address.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>http.proxy.user</entry>
            <entry>String</entry>
            <entry>Proxy user.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>http.proxy.password</entry>
            <entry>String</entry>
            <entry>Proxy password.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>http.proxy.direct</entry>
            <entry>String</entry>
            <entry>Comma separated list of hosts for which the proxy is bypassed.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>http.max.simultaneous.connections.per.host</entry>
            <entry>Integer</entry>
            <entry>Limits the number of connections the HTTP client can open to the same server
              host.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>author.show.comments</entry>
            <entry>boolean</entry>
            <entry>Show the comment nodes in the author page.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>author.show.processing.instructions</entry>
            <entry>boolean</entry>
            <entry>Show the pi nodes in the author page.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>autocorrect.feature.state</entry>
            <entry>boolean</entry>
            <entry>Used to enable/disable the auto-correct feature.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>autocorrect.use.suggeestions.from.spell.check.dicts</entry>
            <entry>boolean</entry>
            <entry>Used to enrich the auto-correct suggestions with entries from spell checking
              dictionaries.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>author.format.compatibility</entry>
            <entry>Integer</entry>
            <entry>Possible values include: 0, 1, 2<p><b>0</b>: Nothing special is done for
                compatibility purpose. </p><p><b>1</b>: Do not break lines, do not
                  indent.</p><p><b>2</b>: Break lines only after elements displayed as blocks, do
                not indent.</p></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>dita.fill.link.format.attribute</entry>
            <entry>boolean</entry>
            <entry>Use <b>true</b> to force the insertion of the <codeph>format</codeph> attribute
              when inserting a link in DITA even when the attribute has a default value.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>dita.fill.link.scope.attribute</entry>
            <entry>boolean</entry>
            <entry>Use <b>true</b> to force the insertion of the <codeph>scope</codeph> attribute
              when inserting a link in DITA even when the attribute has a default value.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>dita.fill.link.type.attribute</entry>
            <entry>boolean</entry>
            <entry>Use <b>true</b> to force the insertion of the <codeph>type</codeph> attribute
              when inserting a link in DITA even when the attribute has a default value.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>auto.correct.single.quotes</entry>
            <entry><xref href="#webapp-supported-options/example-single-quote" format="dita">See
                example entry below</xref></entry>
            <entry>If set, Web Author automatically replaces single quotes with the specified
              quotation symbols. </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>auto.correct.double.quotes</entry>
            <entry><xref href="#webapp-supported-options/example-single-quote" format="dita">See
                example entry below</xref></entry>
            <entry>If set, Web Author automatically replaces double quotes with the specified
              quotation symbols. </entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
    <p id="example-entry">Example entry for <codeph>additional.frameworks.directories</codeph>
      option:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini">&lt;entry>
  &lt;String>
   additional.frameworks.directories
  &lt;/String>
  &lt;String-array>
    &lt;String>
     /path/to/frameworks
    &lt;/String>
  &lt;/String-array>
&lt;/entry></codeblock></p>
    <p id="example-single-quote">Example entry for <codeph>auto.correct.single.quotes</codeph> and
        <codeph>auto.correct.double.quotes</codeph>
      option:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini">&lt;entry> 
  &lt;String>auto.correct.single.quotes&lt;/String> &lt;!–- or auto.correct.double.quotes  -->
  &lt;autoCorrectQuotes>
    &lt;field name="enabled">
      &lt;Boolean>true&lt;/Boolean>
    &lt;/field>
    &lt;field name="startQuote">
      &lt;Character>‘&lt;/Character>
    &lt;/field>
    &lt;field name="endQuote">
      &lt;Character>’&lt;/Character>
    &lt;/field>
  &lt;/autoCorrectQuotes>
&lt;/entry></codeblock></p>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="customizing-options.dita#customizing-options/author_mode_options"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
