<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="webauthor-accessibility">
  <title>Accessibility Support in Web Author</title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_emp_dgk_54b">The <b>Oxygen</b> team is dedicated to developing software products that are usable for
      everyone, including those with physical challenges and disabilities. <ph
        keyref="webappProduct"/> has been designed and enhanced to adhere to the <xref
        href="https://www.access-board.gov/guidelines-and-standards/communications-and-it/about-the-ict-refresh/final-rule/text-of-the-standards-and-guidelines"
        format="html" scope="external">U.S. Government Section 508 accessibility standards</xref>
      and the <xref href="https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/" format="html" scope="external">Web Content
        Accessibility Guidelines
      (WCAG)</xref><?oxy_comment_start author="steven_higgs" timestamp="20190524T084804+0300" comment="Untoggle when we the European compliance has been implemented."?><!--, and the <xref href="https://www.etsi.org/deliver/etsi_en/301500_301599/301549/02.01.02_60/en_301549v020102p.pdf" format="pdf" scope="external">Harmonised European Standard Accessibility requirements for ICT products and services</xref>--><?oxy_comment_end?>.</p>
    <p id="p_fmp_dgk_54b">The purpose is to ensure that <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> is accessible and functional for
      all people, including the ability to access the functionality of the application through the
      use of assistive technology, such as screen readers.</p>
    <p id="p_gmp_dgk_54b">Some of the accessibility features in <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> include:<ul
        id="ul_nv4_mr5_vhb">
        <li id="li_hmp_dgk_54b">The ability to <xref href="wa-using-the-keyboard.dita">work with Web Author using the
            keyboard</xref>, without the need of a mouse.</li>
        <li id="li_imp_dgk_54b">The various UI components and areas within the application (such as
          dialog boxes and views) are accessible to screen readers. Web Author has been tested with
            <term>NVDA</term>, <term>JAWS</term>, and <term>VoiceOver</term>.</li>
        <li id="li_jmp_dgk_54b">Features (such as change tracking) are interpreted by screen readers.</li>
        <li id="li_kmp_dgk_54b">An <xref href="webapp-overview.dita#webapp-overview/enable-accessibility"
              ><uicontrol>Enable accessibility optimization</uicontrol> option</xref> that optimizes
          the editor for accessibility and provide more information for screen readers.</li>
        <li id="li_lmp_dgk_54b">Labels or instructions are provided when content requires user input.</li>
        <li id="li_mmp_dgk_54b">Numerous common keyboard shortcuts were enabled and additional shortcuts were added (for
          example, on Windows, <uicontrol><shortcut>Ctrl+F2</shortcut></uicontrol> instructs the
          screen reader to provide more information about an element).</li>
        <li id="li_nmp_dgk_54b">Navigation through the various UI components is achieved through keyboard commands (for
          example, on Windows, <uicontrol><shortcut>Tab</shortcut></uicontrol>,
              <uicontrol><shortcut>Shift+Tab</shortcut></uicontrol>, arrow keys,
              <uicontrol><shortcut>Enter</shortcut></uicontrol>, space bar, and
              <uicontrol><shortcut>Ctrl+F6</shortcut></uicontrol>/<uicontrol><shortcut>Shift+Ctrl+F6</shortcut></uicontrol>
          navigates through the main regions of the UI).</li>
        <li id="li_omp_dgk_54b">Color contrasts are adjusted to comply with the required standards.</li>
        <li id="li_pmp_dgk_54b">A spell check dialog box (accessed via a toolbar button or
              <uicontrol><shortcut>F7</shortcut></uicontrol>) provides the ability to cycle through
          misspelled words and replace them with the correct words.<note id="note_qmp_dgk_54b">The
            installation kit does not include this feature by default, but it can be enabled by
            installing a <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/web-author-spelling-dialog-plugin"
              format="html" scope="external">plugin that is available on GitHub</xref>.</note></li>
      </ul></p>
  </body>
</topic>
