<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="webauthor-security-configuration">
  <title>Configuring Security Settings</title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_f1r_dgk_54b">The <uicontrol>Security</uicontrol> tab in the <xref
        href="webapp-admin-page.dita"/> provides options for handling security-related features,
      including an option for specifying trusted code locations and a firewall option where you can
      choose to restrict access to hosts that are not specified as being trusted. Additionally,
      important security tips and recommendations can be found in the <xref
        href="web-author-security-hardening.dita"/> section of the documentation.</p>
    <section id="security_options">
      <title>Security Options</title>
      <p id="p_upy_hkk_vyb">The <uicontrol>Security</uicontrol> tab in the <xref
          href="webapp-admin-page.dita"/> includes a <xref
          href="webapp-admin-page.dita#webapp-admin-page/dlentry_mvq_dgk_54b"><uicontrol>Security
            Options</uicontrol> section</xref> with the following options:</p>
      <p id="p_ssj_vqk_vyb">
        <dl>
          <dlentry conkeyref="reusables-sdk-webauthor/dlentry_umn_j4k_vyb" id="dlentry_t5g_xqk_vyb">
            <dt/>
            <dd/>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="trusted_code">
      <title>Trusted Code</title>
      <p>In <ph keyref="webappProduct"/>, <b>Code</b> refers to resources that can affect document
        appearance or functionality. Code resources can take many forms, such as CSS files,
        Schematron rules, and embedded content loaded through <i>iframe</i> targets (e.g.
          <codeph>oxy_video</codeph> or <codeph>oxy_browser</codeph>).</p>
      <p id="p_g1r_dgk_54b">By default, <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> does not load code referenced
        directly in documents unless the code originates from the framework (document type
        association) or a plugin. This restriction is important for security, as it helps prevent
        the execution of untrusted or potentially harmful scripts, which could compromise data, user
        privacy, or system functionality.</p>
      <p>You can specify code locations to be considered trusted by adding them in the
          <uicontrol>Trusted Code</uicontrol> option in the <uicontrol>Security</uicontrol> tab of
        the <xref href="webapp-admin-page.dita"/>. Only add trusted and verified code locations to
        ensure secure script execution. The code locations need to be declared with URL patterns,
        one per line. For
        example:<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_h1r_dgk_54b">*//github.com/*
webdav-https://my-server:8081/repo/*
https://youtube.com/embed/*</codeblock></p>
      <p id="p_i1r_dgk_54b">
        <note id="note_j1r_dgk_54b">The location of a resource should be its <xref
            href="oxy-url.dita" product="waCustom">OXY-URL</xref><xref
            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-waCustom/topics/oxy-url.html" format="html"
            scope="external" product="webauthor">OXY-URL</xref>. </note>
      </p>
      <p id="p_k1r_dgk_54b">To consider all code as trusted (which is the equivalent to disabling
        this security feature and is not recommended), you can use a wildcard that matches any
        location:<codeblock outputclass="" id="codeblock_l1r_dgk_54b">*</codeblock></p>
    </section>
    <section id="trusted_hosts">
      <title>Firewall</title>
      <p id="p_m1r_dgk_54b">It is possible to restrict the domains that the Web Author server is
        allowed to connect to. The <uicontrol>Security</uicontrol> tab in the <xref
          href="webapp-admin-page.dita"/> includes a <uicontrol>Firewall</uicontrol> section where
        you can choose to allow all connections or only allow connections to hosts that you specify
        as trusted. You can specify the hosts to be considered trusted by adding them (one per line)
        in the <xref href="webapp-admin-page.dita#webapp-admin-page/only-allow-connections"
            ><uicontrol>Only allow connections to these trusted hosts</uicontrol> option</xref>. For
        example:<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_n1r_dgk_54b">www.oxygenxml.com:443
*.mycompany.intranet</codeblock></p>
      <p id="p_o1r_dgk_54b">To allow connections to a domain regardless of the port, you can specify just the domain
        name. The wildcard character <codeph>*</codeph> can also be used, for example, to match any
        subdomain.</p>
      <p id="p_p1r_dgk_54b">If the <uicontrol>Allow All Connections</uicontrol> and <uicontrol>Log
          each connection</uicontrol> options are enabled, a log entry will be added for each
        outgoing connection that contains the <codeph>[OUTGOING CONNECTION]</codeph> token. This is
        useful for monitoring and for determining which domains should be marked as trusted.</p>
      <note type="other" othertype="Notes" id="note_q1r_dgk_54b">
        <ul id="ul_jky_rhj_4kb">
          <li id="li_r1r_dgk_54b">
            <p id="p_s1r_dgk_54b">Plugins can specify whether a connection is allowed or denied,
              regardless of whether or not they are listed in the <uicontrol>Security</uicontrol>
              tab of the <xref href="webapp-admin-page.dita"/>. For example, the Perforce plugin
              allows connections to the Perforce server configured in the Administration page. </p>
            <p id="p_t1r_dgk_54b">To see which plugins allowed or denied connections, you can activate logging for this
              kind of events by adding the following line to the <xref href="web-author-logs.dita"
                >log configuration
              file</xref>:<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne" id="codeblock_u1r_dgk_54b">log4j.category.com.oxygenxml.webauthor.SecurityManager=info</codeblock></p>
            <p id="p_v1r_dgk_54b">Lines that correspond to such events contain the token <codeph>[PLUGIN FIREWALL
                DECISION]</codeph>.</p>
          </li>
          <li id="li_w1r_dgk_54b">Connections that have no security risks (such as connections to
            the License Server) are also allowed regardless of the settings in the
              <uicontrol>Security</uicontrol> tab of the <xref href="webapp-admin-page.dita"/>.</li>
        </ul>
      </note>
    </section>
    <section id="content_security_policy">
      <title>Content Security Policy (CSP)</title>
      <p>The <uicontrol>Security</uicontrol> tab in the <xref href="webapp-admin-page.dita"/>
        includes a <uicontrol>CSP</uicontrol> section where you can choose whether or not to use the
          <i>Content Security Policy (CSP)</i> and you can configure your own custom security
        policy. For more information about the Content Security Policy, see: <xref
          href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CSP" format="html"
          scope="external"/>.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
