<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="webapp_deployment">
  <title><ph product="webauthor">Deploying <ph keyref="webappProduct"/></ph><ph product="waCustom"
      >Deployment and Administration</ph></title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Deploying Web Author</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <section id="intended_audience">
      <title>Intended Audience</title>
      <p>This section of the <ph product="webauthor">User Guide</ph><ph product="waCustom"
          >Customization Guide</ph> is meant to help system admins or others who are responsible for
        deploying <ph keyref="webappProduct"/>.</p>
      <p product="webauthor">For integrators or system admins looking for information about
        integrating and customizing Web Author, see the <xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-waCustom/" format="html" scope="external">Oxygen
          XML Web Author Customization Guide</xref>.</p>
      <p product="waCustom">For information about integrating and customizing Web Author, see <xref
          href="customization_overview.dita#customization_overview"/>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="what_is_wa">
      <title>What is <ph keyref="webappProduct"/>?</title>
      <p><ph keyref="webappProduct"/> is a web-based editing platform that utilizes the advanced
        authoring technology of <term>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</term> to bring XML editing and
        reviewing to your mobile devices, as well as your desktop systems. It is supported on
        Windows, Linux, and Mac OS X platforms and the most popular browsers.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="server_requirements">
      <title>Server Requirements</title>
      <p>Even though the requirements are not very strict, you should consider the following metrics
        when provisioning the server for running the <ph keyref="webappProduct"/>:<ul
          id="ul_nn3_psf_br">
          <li>A processor core can handle 50 to 100 active users.</li>
          <li>Editing an average DITA file consumes about 10MB of RAM. However, the <ph
              keyref="webappProduct"/> includes a <xref
              href="customizing-options.dita#customizing-options/mem_size_param">configurable
              caching mechanism</xref> that stores the oldest files to disk when memory resources
            become low.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section id="software_requirements">
      <title>Software Requirements</title>
      <p>On the server side, the following applications are supported:<ul id="ul_y35_m5f_br">
          <li>Servlet container:<ul id="ul_gnj_1nq_s5">
              <li>Apache Tomcat 7, 8, or 9</li>
              <li>IBM WebSphere (Traditional) 9.0.0.6 (see: <xref href="wa-websphere-tutorial.dita"
                />)</li>
              <li>IBM WebSphere Liberty 8.5.5.8 (see: <xref
                  href="wa-websphere-liberty-tutorial.dita"/>)</li>
              <li>WildFly 13.0.0.Final (see: <xref href="wa-wildfly-tutorial.dita"/>)</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li>Java Virtual Machine 1.8 or newer</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section id="other_notes">
      <title>Oxygen Data Directory and Other Important Deployment Notes</title>
      <ul>
        <li>All <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> configuration files are stored in a single folder that
          can be shared amongst multiple servers in a <xref
            href="webapp-loadbalancing.dita#webapp-loadbalancing">distributed deployment</xref>. It
          can also be reused when you update the server to a new version. <p>The default location of
            this folder depends on the distribution, as follows:<dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Windows, Linux, and All Platforms Distributions</dt>
                <dd><b>OXYGEN_DATA_DIRECTORY</b> = <filepath><term
                      conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-webapp-install-dir"
                    />/tomcat/work/Catalina/localhost/oxygen-xml-web-author</filepath>.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Web Archive Distribution</dt>
                <dd><b>OXYGEN_DATA_DIRECTORY</b> = Depends on the servlet container. For example, in
                  Tomcat it is located in
                    <filepath>work/Catalina/localhost/oxygen-xml-web-author</filepath>.</dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl></p><p>However, the default location can be overridden by the <xref
              href="webauthor-set-system-property.dita#webauthor-set-system-property"
                ><b>oxygen.data.dir</b> system property</xref>.</p><note type="attention">If the <ph
              keyref="webappProduct"/> is started in security mode, you must <xref
              href="webauthor-set-system-property.dita#webauthor-set-system-property">set the
                <b>oxygen.data.dir</b> system property</xref>.</note><note type="important">WildFly
            and WebSphere will erase the folder with configuration files upon restart. For these
            servers, you must <xref
              href="webauthor-set-system-property.dita#webauthor-set-system-property">set the
                <b>oxygen.data.dir</b> system property</xref> to a folder that persists across
            restarts.</note></li>
        <li>It is recommended that you install <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> in its own instance of
          Tomcat, without <xref href="how_to_share_tomcat.dita#how_to_share_tomcat">sharing it with
            other applications</xref>.</li>
        <li>If you want to reload the application, you have to restart the server.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link format="html"
        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-editor/topics/floating-license-servlet-setup.html"
        scope="external" product="waCustom">
        <linktext>Setting up an HTTP Floating License Server</linktext>
      </link>
      <link href="floating-license-servlet-setup.dita#floating-license-servlet-setup"
        product="webauthor"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
