<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="webapp-how-to-create-doc">
  <title>How to Create and Open Documents for Configured Plugins</title>
  <body>
    <p>The <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> has a user-friendly <uicontrol>Dashboard</uicontrol> and if
      a particular plugin registers a create or open action, then it will include sections for
      creating and opening documents for plugin integrations.</p>
    <section><title>Register Create and Open actions for <ph keyref="webappProduct"/>
        <uicontrol>Dashboard</uicontrol></title>To register <i>Create</i> and <i>Open</i> actions,
      follow these steps:<ol>
        <li><xref href="../tasks/webapp-plugin-prototyping.dita#webapp-plugin-prototyping">Create a
            plugin</xref> that has a <filepath>plugin.js</filepath> file in its
            <filepath>web</filepath> folder.</li>
        <li>In the <filepath>plugin.js</filepath> file, add code similar to the following
            example:<codeblock outputclass="language-javascript">// The base url to browse.
var initialUrl = 'file:/[PATH_TO_RESOURCE_FOLDER]';

var createAction = new sync.api.CreateDocumentAction(
    new sync.api.FileBrowsingDialog({initialUrl : initialUrl}));
createAction.setActionName('New Document');

var openAction =new sync.actions.OpenAction(
    new sync.api.FileBrowsingDialog({initialUrl : initialUrl}));
openAction.setActionName('Open Document');

var actionsManager = workspace.getActionsManager();
actionsManager.registerCreateAction(createAction);
actionsManager.registerOpenAction(openAction);</codeblock><note>This
            example will provide browsing capabilities on your local file system. More complex
            connectors can be implemented using our Java and <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/maven/com/oxygenxml/oxygen-webapp/17.1.0/jsdoc/"
              format="html" scope="external">JavaScript API</xref>. Also, to see information for a
            more complex example, you can also look at our <xref
              href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/webapp-storage-services-integration" format="html"
              scope="external"><ph keyref="webappProduct"/> storage services integration project
              that is hosted on GitHub</xref>.</note></li>
        <li><xref href="customizing_plugins.dita#customizing_plugins/add-plugin-section">Deploy the
            plugin</xref> in the <ph keyref="webappProduct"/>.</li>
      </ol>The registered <i>create</i> action will appear in the <uicontrol>New</uicontrol> section
      on your <uicontrol>Dashboard</uicontrol>, while a registered <i>open</i> action will appear in
      the <uicontrol>Open</uicontrol> section.</section>
    <section><title>Create a New Document</title>To create a new document, follow these steps:<ol>
        <li>Go to your <ph keyref="webappProduct"/>
          <uicontrol>Dashboard</uicontrol> page.</li>
        <li>Click the <uicontrol>New Document</uicontrol> action in the <uicontrol>New</uicontrol>
          section. This opens a dialog box that allows you to select a new file template.</li>
        <li>Select a file template click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol>. This opens a dialog box that
          allows you browse for a destination path.</li>
        <li>Select a destination path and name for the new document.</li>
      </ol>The new document will be opened in a new tab.</section>
    <section><title>Open a Document</title>To open a document, follow these steps:<ol>
        <li>Go to your <ph keyref="webappProduct"/>
          <uicontrol>Dashboard</uicontrol> page.</li>
        <li>Click the <uicontrol>Open Document</uicontrol> action in the <uicontrol>Open</uicontrol>
          section. This opens a dialog box that allows you to browse for a file.</li>
        <li>Select the file and click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol>.</li>
      </ol>The selected document will be opened in a new tab.</section>
  </body>
</topic>
