<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="webapp-loadbalancing">
  <title>Setting up a Load-Balanced Server</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Load-balanced server setup for Web Author</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_tmr_dgk_54b">To scale a deployment to a larger number of users and to increase the
      availability, <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> can be deployed on a set of
      <term>load-balanced</term> servers. This topic describes the required setup for such a
      scenario.</p>
    <note type="restriction" id="note_umr_dgk_54b">The <xref href="webauthor-concurrent-editing.dita" product="webauthor"
      ><term>concurrent editing</term></xref><xref href="webauthor-concurrent-editing-api.dita"
        product="waCustom"><term>concurrent editing</term></xref> feature does not work if <ph
          keyref="webappProduct"/> is deployed on multiple servers behind a load balancer.</note>
    <section id="section_zf1_nhs_1qb">
      <title>Configure Session <term>Stickiness</term></title>
      <p id="p_ag1_nhs_1qb">Every <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> server keeps the state of the edited
        documents in memory for performance reasons. This implies that every user should connect to
        the same back-end server for the duration of an editing session. To achieve this result in a
        <term>load-balanced</term> setting, you should enable <b>session
          <term>stickiness</term></b>.</p>
      <p>
        <note id="note_bg1_nhs_1qb">
          <p id="p_cg1_nhs_1qb">By default, Web Author uses the JSESSIONID cookie to track the
            active sessions. Some load-balancers implement session <term>stickiness</term> by
            modifying the JSESSIONID session cookie, which might break the Web Author's session
            tracking mechanism. </p>
          <p id="p_dg1_nhs_1qb">In this case, you will need to change the name of the cookie <ph
            keyref="webappProduct"/> uses to track sessions by changing the
            <filepath>WEB-INF/shiro.ini</filepath> configuration file to
            add:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini" id="codeblock_hzj_2zy_5wb">sessionManager.sessionIdCookie.name = NAME</codeblock></p>
        </note>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_s1s_32b_n5">
      <title>Configure Server Health Checks</title>
      <p id="p_ymr_dgk_54b">To detect unhealthy servers, <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> offers a
        health check <term>REST API</term>. The endpoint has the following interface:</p>
      <p id="p_zmr_dgk_54b">
        <dl id="dl_anr_dgk_54b">
          <dlentry id="dlentry_bnr_dgk_54b">
            <dt>URL</dt>
            <dd><filepath>rest-public/status</filepath></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_cnr_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Response status code</dt>
            <dd>200 for a healthy server and 503 for an unhealthy server.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_dnr_dgk_54b">
            <dt>Response body</dt>
            <dd>For an unhealthy server, the response body contains a text description of the
              problem.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_ejm_1qr_gv">
      <title>Configure the License Server</title>
      <p id="p_enr_dgk_54b">All <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> servers can use the same pool of floating licenses. To
        this end, they all need to be <xref href="webapp_licensing.dita#webapp_licensing">configured
          to use the same license server</xref>. </p>
    </section>
    <section id="share_options_between_all_instances">
      <title>Share Configuration Between All Instances</title>
      <p id="p_fnr_dgk_54b">The configuration (including options, frameworks, and plugins) is stored
        in the file system in a directory that can be changed using the <xref
          href="wa-oxygen-data-dir.dita"><term>oxygen.data.dir</term> system property</xref>. For
        all instances to use the same options, <codeph>oxygen.data.dir</codeph> should point to the
        same directory on a shared file system (for example, NFS). </p>
      <p id="p_gnr_dgk_54b">To manage the configuration, you have two options:</p>
      <ul id="ul_o4n_dvp_p1b">
        <li id="li_hnr_dgk_54b">Use the <xref href="webapp-admin-page.dita#webapp-admin-page">Administration Page</xref>
          of one of the instances to change these options and then restart all other instances so
          that they pick up the new configuration.</li>
        <li id="li_inr_dgk_54b">Create a custom Web Application Archive (WAR) that contains <ph keyref="webappProduct"/>
          and all the configuration. Every time you want to change the configuration, create a new
          version of the WAR file and deploy it again. Such a custom WAR can be built using the
          <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/web-author-component-integration" format="html"
            scope="external">Web Author Component integration project</xref>.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="Redundancy-Deployment-for-Web-Author.dita"/>
    <link href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/web-author-docker/tree/master/load-balancer"
      format="html" scope="external">
      <linktext>Multiple Web Author Instances with a Load Balancer</linktext>
    </link>
    
  </related-links>
</topic>
