<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="webauthor-customize-with-css">
  <title>Customizing the Document Editing Experience Using CSS</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Customizing Web Author using CSS</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_rks_dgk_54b"><ph keyref="webappProduct"/> allows you to edit XML documents with a visual presentation
      mode. The document rendering is controlled by CSS stylesheets. You can control how the XML
      elements are visually presented, from basic aspects such as fonts, colors, and layout (tables,
      lists, etc.) to more advanced aspects such as the in-place XML attribute editor, placeholders
      for empty elements, or controlling which elements can be folded. </p>
    <p id="p_sks_dgk_54b"><term>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</term> has a useful <xref
        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-editor/topics/author-css-inspector-view.html"
        format="html" scope="external">CSS inspector</xref> similar to those found in most modern
      browsers. It can be used to quickly modify the CSS used to render your XML documents.</p>
    <p id="p_tks_dgk_54b">After making changes to the CSS, you can test the results by using the <xref
        href="customizing_frameworks.dita#customizing_frameworks/developing_and_testing_a_framework_using_the_weba"
        >Web Author Test Server add-on</xref>. Once you are happy with the changes, you need to
        <xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-editor/topics/the-css-sub-tab.html"
        format="html" scope="external">use the CSS tab in the Document Type Association dialog box
        to associate the CSS with your framework</xref>.</p>
    <section id="section_y4h_vqx_hz">
      <title>Example: Customizing the Background for the Note Element in DITA</title>
      <p id="p_uks_dgk_54b">Suppose you want to configure Web Author to render the default DITA
          <xmlelement>note</xmlelement> elements with a yellow background while rendering those with
        the <xmlatt>type</xmlatt> attribute set to <codeph>danger</codeph> with s light red
        background. You could do this by following these steps:<ol id="ol_tzy_2rx_hz">
          <li id="li_vks_dgk_54b">In <term>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</term>, create a new DITA topic and insert two
              <xmlelement>note</xmlelement> elements (one without setting the <xmlatt>type</xmlatt>
            attribute and the other setting the <codeph>type</codeph> attribute to
            <b>danger</b>.</li>
          <li id="li_wks_dgk_54b">Right-click on the first <xmlelement>note</xmlelement> element and choose
              <uicontrol>Inspect Styles</uicontrol>.</li>
          <li id="li_xks_dgk_54b">In the <uicontrol>CSS Inspector</uicontrol> view, you can see all the <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-editor/topics/author-css-inspector-view.html#author-css-inspector-view__displaying_rules"
              format="html" scope="external">rules currently applied</xref> for notes. Click the
            link associated with one of them to take you to the source CSS file.</li>
          <li id="li_yks_dgk_54b">Add the following code in the CSS
            file:<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_zks_dgk_54b">[class*="topic/note"] {
  padding: 15px;
  margin-bottom: 20px;
  border: 1px solid transparent;
  border-radius: 4px;
  
  color: #8a6d3b;
  background-color: #fcf8e3;
  border-color: #faebcc;
}
[class*="topic/note"][type="danger"] {
  color: #a94442;
  background-color: #f2dede;
  border-color: #ebccd1;
}</codeblock></li>
          <li id="li_als_dgk_54b">Switch to the XML document and see that the colors have changed.</li>
          <li id="li_bls_dgk_54b">Once you are happy with the changes, you need to <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-editor/topics/the-css-sub-tab.html"
              format="html" scope="external">use the CSS tab in the Document Type Association dialog
              box to associate the CSS with your framework</xref>.</li>
          <li id="li_cls_dgk_54b">You can check to see how <i>notes</i> look in Web Author by using the <xref
              href="customizing_frameworks.dita#customizing_frameworks/developing_and_testing_a_framework_using_the_weba"
              >Web Author Test Server add-on</xref>.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
