<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="webapp_smart_paste">
  <title>Smart Paste Support</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Pasting content</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Smart Paste feature</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Copy/Paste support</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_s1p_dgk_54b">The <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> includes support for copy, cut, and paste actions using the
      usual keyboard shortcuts (<uicontrol conkeyref="reusable-oxygen-shortcuts-list/ctrl_c"
        >(</uicontrol>, <uicontrol conkeyref="reusable-oxygen-shortcuts-list/ctrl_x"/>, and
        <uicontrol conkeyref="reusable-oxygen-shortcuts-list/ctrl_v"/>). This support includes a
        <term>Smart Paste</term> feature that preserves certain style and structure information.
      This includes the following scenarios:<ul id="ul_cdd_d1c_cr">
        <li id="li_t1p_dgk_54b">Pasting content from external sources (such as text processors or web browsers) into the
          document you are editing. <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> tries to preserve all associated
          formatting, such as lists, paragraphs, and text styling. When a valid XML structure is
          detected in the clipboard content, <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> will paste the content
          with XML structure. </li>
        <li id="li_u1p_dgk_54b">Pasting content from within an <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> session, preserving the XML
          structure. If the current location is not valid for the copied content, <ph
            keyref="webappProduct"/> will try to find possible solutions (if possible).</li>
        <li id="li_v1p_dgk_54b">Pasting content from the <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> session into external sources. In
          this case, only the text content is copied.</li>
        <li id="li_w1p_dgk_54b">Pasting (or dragging and dropping) a valid http(s) URL string. <ph
            keyref="webappProduct"/> will automatically insert it as a linking element for the
          particular document type you are working with. For example, in DITA it would insert an
            <xmlelement>xref</xmlelement> element.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p id="p_x1p_dgk_54b">On desktop devices, the <term>Smart Paste</term> feature also includes a <uicontrol>Paste
        Special</uicontrol> action in the contextual menu that allows you to choose how to paste
      copied content. The <uicontrol>Paste Special</uicontrol> action allows you to choose from the
        following:<ul conkeyref="reusables-webapp/paste-special-options" id="ul_y1p_dgk_54b">
        <li id="li_z1p_dgk_54b"/>
      </ul></p>
    <note type="notice" id="note_abp_dgk_54b"><ph conkeyref="reusables-webapp/safari-note"/></note>
  </body>
</topic>
