<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="webauthor-integrate-embedded-launch">
  <title>Embedding an Edit Link that will Launch Web Author</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Embedding an Edit link that launches Web Author</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_zxr_dgk_54b">You can control or streamline your documentation review workflow by configuring <i>Edit</i>
      links that are either sent to reviewers or embedded in an email, web page, published output,
      or anywhere that you can provide a usable link. These <i>Edit</i> links will automatically
      launch a particular document in <ph keyref="webappProduct"/>. A reviewer then simply clicks
      the link and they will be redirected to the <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> editing page with
      that particular file open and editable.</p>
    <section id="url_parameters">
      <title>URL Parameters</title>
      <p id="p_ayr_dgk_54b">The <i>Edit</i> link can be created with a carefully built target and using URL parameters.
        The base URL for the link is the URL that you see in the browser when the <xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-webauthor/topics/webapp-create-open-docs.html"
          format="html" scope="external"><uicontrol>Dashboard</uicontrol> page</xref> is opened.</p>
      <p id="oxy-url-p-1"><b>Example: The base URL for Oxygen XML Web Author demo
        deployment</b><codeblock outputclass="language-ini" id="codeblock_byr_dgk_54b">https://www.oxygenxml.com/oxygen-xml-web-author/app/oxygen.html</codeblock></p>
      <p id="p_cyr_dgk_54b">The base URL is then followed by parameters that contain the information about the file to
        open and the options used to load it.</p>
      <p conkeyref="reusables-webauthor-customization/oxy-url-p-2" id="p_dyr_dgk_54b"/>
      <p id="oxy-url-p-3"><b><u>Example: OXY-URL for a Sample Deployment</u></b></p>
      <p id="oxy-url-p-4">Suppose that the <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> is deployed at the following
        URL:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini" id="codeblock_eyr_dgk_54b">http://www.example.com/web-author-component-integration/app/oxygen.html</codeblock></p>
      <p id="oxy-url-p-5">The user (John Doe) wants to edit a file (located at
          <filepath>http://www.test.com/topics/topic.xml</filepath>) in the context of a <term>DITA
          map</term> (located at <filepath>http://www.test.com/map.xml</filepath>). In this case,
        the editing URL should
          be:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini" id="codeblock_fyr_dgk_54b">http://www.example.com/web-author-component-integration/app/oxygen.html
?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.test.com%2Ftopics%2Ftopic.xml
&amp;ditamap=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.test.com%2Fmap.xml
&amp;userName=John%20Doe</codeblock><note id="note_gyr_dgk_54b">The
          parameter values are percent-encoded before being added to the editing
          URL.</note><note id="note_hyr_dgk_54b">Some of these parameters can be set as <xref
            href="web_author_api_concepts.dita#web_author_api_concepts/loading-option">loading
            options</xref> from a JavaScript plugin.</note></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_am5_hbq_1z">
      <title>How to Embed the Edit Link in Published DITA Output (WebHelp or PDF)</title>
      <p id="p_iyr_dgk_54b"><b>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</b> comes bundled with a built-in DITA-OT plugin that can be
        used to embed an <i>Edit</i> link in the WebHelp and PDF output for each topic.</p>
      <p id="p_jyr_dgk_54b">To embed an <i>Edit</i> link for each topic in DITA WebHelp or PDF output, follow this procedure:<ol id="ol_kyr_dgk_54b">
          <li id="li_lyr_dgk_54b">In <b>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</b>, edit a DITA Map WebHelp Responsive or DITA Map PDF
            transformation scenario and open the <uicontrol>Parameters</uicontrol> tab.</li>
          <li id="li_myr_dgk_54b">Set values for the following parameters:<ul id="ul_nyr_dgk_54b">
              <li id="li_oyr_dgk_54b"><b>editlink.ditamap.edit.url</b> - The custom <xref href="oxy-url.dita#oxy-url"
                    ><term>OXY-URL</term></xref> of the DITA map used to publish your content. The
                easiest way to obtain the URL is to open the map in Web Author and copy the URL from
                the browser's address bar.</li>
              <li id="li_pyr_dgk_54b"><b>editlink.additional.query.parameters</b> - Optional query parameters to be
                appended to each generated edit link. Each parameter must start with <i>&amp;</i>
                (for example: <i>&amp;tags-mode=no-tags</i>). </li>
            </ul></li>
          <li id="li_qyr_dgk_54b">Run the transformation scenario.</li>
        </ol></p>
      <p id="p_ryr_dgk_54b"><b>Result:</b> In the WebHelp or PDF output, all topics will have an
          <uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol> link to the right side of the title and clicking the link will
        launch that particular document in <ph keyref="webappProduct"/>.</p>
      <p id="p_syr_dgk_54b">
        <note type="tip" id="note_tyr_dgk_54b">For PDF output, if you want the edit link to be attached to an entire
          bookmap, you need to call the <b>add-map-edit-link</b> named template in your front page
          customization. For
          example:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_uyr_dgk_54b">&lt;xsl:template name="createFrontCoverContents">
  &lt;!-- set the title -->
  &lt;fo:block xsl:use-attribute-sets= class="code-quote">"__frontmatter__title">
    &lt;xsl:choose>
      &lt;xsl:when test="$map/*[contains(@class,' topic/title ')][1]">
        &lt;xsl:apply-templates select="$map/*[contains(@class,' topic/title ')][1]"/>
      &lt;/xsl:when>
      &lt;xsl:when test="$map//*[contains(@class,' bookmap/mainbooktitle ')][1]">
        &lt;xsl:apply-templates select="$map//*[contains(@class,' bookmap/mainbooktitle ')]
[1]"/>
      &lt;/xsl:when>
      &lt;xsl:when test="//*[contains(@class, ' map/map ')]/@title">
        &lt;xsl:value-of select="//*[contains(@class, ' map/map ')]/@title"/>
      &lt;/xsl:when>
      &lt;xsl:otherwise>
        &lt;xsl:value-of select="/descendant::*[contains(@class, ' topic/topic ')]
[1]/*[contains(@class, ' topic/title ')]"/>
      &lt;/xsl:otherwise>
    &lt;/xsl:choose>
    &lt;fo:block>
      &lt;xsl:call-template name="add-map-edit-link"/>
    &lt;/fo:block>
  &lt;/fo:block>
    
  &lt;!-- set the subtitle -->
  &lt;xsl:apply-templates select="$map//*[contains(@class,' bookmap/booktitlealt ')]"/>
  &lt;fo:block xsl:use-attribute-sets= class="code-quote">"__frontmatter__owner">
    &lt;xsl:apply-templates select="$map//*[contains(@class,' bookmap/bookmeta ')]"/>
  &lt;/fo:block>
&lt;/xsl:template></codeblock></note>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="how_to_embed_the_edit_link_in_published_pdf5_outp">
      <title>How to Embed the Edit Link in Published PDF5 Output</title>
      <p id="p_vyr_dgk_54b">To embed an <i>Edit</i> link for each topic in DITA PDF5 output (obtained using the <xref
          href="https://github.com/AntennaHouse/pdf5-ml" format="html" scope="external">PDF5-ML
          plugin</xref>), follow this procedure:<ol id="ol_jgl_lbq_f2b">
          <li id="li_wyr_dgk_54b">Add the following import <codeph>xsl:include
              href="../../com.oxygenxml.editlink/pdf5.xsl"/></codeph> in the
              <filepath>com.antennahouse.pdf5.ml/customization/dita2fo_custom.xsl</filepath> file of
            the PDF5 plugin.</li>
          <li id="li_xyr_dgk_54b">In the <filepath>com.oxygenxml.editlink/plugin.xml</filepath> file, uncomment the
            lines that configure the parameters for the PDF5
            plugin:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_yyr_dgk_54b">&lt;feature extension="com.antennahouse.pdf5.ml.param" value="params.xml" type="file"/>
&lt;feature extension="com.antennahouse.pdf5.ml.saxon.param" value="params.xml" type="file"/>
&lt;feature extension="com.antennahouse.pdf5.ml.psmi.param" value="params.xml" type="file"/></codeblock></li>
          <li id="li_zyr_dgk_54b">In <b>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</b>, edit a DITA Map PDF5 transformation scenario and
            open the <uicontrol>Parameters</uicontrol> tab.</li>
          <li id="li_azr_dgk_54b">Set values for the following parameters:<ul id="ul_a45_mvh_flb">
              <li id="li_bzr_dgk_54b"><b>editlink.ditamap.edit.url</b> - The custom <xref href="oxy-url.dita#oxy-url"
                    ><term>OXY-URL</term></xref> of the DITA map used to publish your content. The
                easiest way to obtain the URL is to open the map in Web Author and copy the URL from
                the browser's address bar.</li>
              <li id="li_czr_dgk_54b"><b>editlink.additional.query.parameters</b> - Optional query parameters to be
                appended to each generated edit link. Each parameter must start with <i>&amp;</i>
                (for example: <i>&amp;tags-mode=no-tags</i>). </li>
            </ul></li>
          <li id="li_dzr_dgk_54b">Run the transformation.</li>
        </ol></p>
      <p id="p_ezr_dgk_54b"><b>Result:</b> In the PDF output, all topics will have an <uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol> link
        to the right side of the title and clicking the link will launch that particular document in
          <ph keyref="webappProduct"/>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_x2n_vhh_vrb">
      <title>Resources</title>
      <p id="p_orm_dgk_54b">For more information about how Web Author can be integrated within
        various stages of a documentation review workflow, see the following resources:<ul
          id="ul_kdg_v5v_tvb">
          <li id="li_ldg_v5v_tvb">Video: <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/demo/wa_web_author_into_your_documentation_review_workflow.html"
              format="html" scope="external"><b>Integrating Oxygen XML Web Author Into Your
                Documentation Review Workflow</b></xref></li>
          <li id="li_b1q_x5v_tvb">Video: <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/demo/using_oxygen_xml_web_author_diff_functionality.html"
              format="html" scope="external"><b>Using Oxygen XML Web Author's Diff
              Functionality</b></xref></li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
