<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="webhelp-seo">
  <title>How to Optimize Search Results</title>
  <body>
    <p>A <uicontrol>DITA Map WebHelp</uicontrol> transformation scenario can be configured to
      produce a <filepath>sitemap.xml</filepath> file that is used by search engines to aid crawling
      and indexing mechanisms. A <i>sitemap</i> lists all pages of a WebHelp system and allows
      webmasters to provide additional information about each page, such as the date it was last
      updated, change frequency, and importance of each page in relation to other pages in your
      WebHelp deployment.</p>
    <p>The structure of the <filepath>sitemap.xml</filepath> file looks like
      this:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;urlset xmlns="http://www.sitemaps.org/schemas/sitemap/0.9"&gt;
  &lt;url&gt;
    &lt;loc&gt;http://www.example.com/topics/introduction.html&lt;/loc&gt;
    &lt;lastmod&gt;2014-10-24&lt;/lastmod&gt;
    &lt;changefreq&gt;weekly&lt;/changefreq&gt;
    &lt;priority&gt;0.5&lt;/priority&gt;
  &lt;/url&gt;
  &lt;url&gt;
    &lt;loc&gt;http://www.example.com/topics/care.html#care&lt;/loc&gt;
    &lt;lastmod&gt;2014-10-24&lt;/lastmod&gt;
    &lt;changefreq&gt;weekly&lt;/changefreq&gt;
    &lt;priority&gt;0.5&lt;/priority&gt;
  &lt;/url&gt;
   .  .  .
&lt;/urlset&gt;</codeblock></p>
    <p>Each page has a <codeph>&lt;url></codeph> element structure containing additional
      information, such as:<ul id="ul_iq3_nmt_kq">
        <li><b>loc</b> - the URL of the page. This URL must begin with the protocol (such as
            <codeph>http</codeph>), if required by your web server. It is constructed from the value
          of the <codeph>webhelp.sitemap.base.url</codeph> parameter from the transformation
          scenario and the relative path to the page (collected from the <codeph>href</codeph>
          attribute of a <codeph>topicref</codeph> element in the <term>DITA map</term>).<note>The
            value must have fewer than 2,048 characters.</note></li>
        <li><b>lastmod</b> (optional) - the date when the page was last modified. The date format is
            <codeph>YYYY-MM-DD</codeph>.</li>
        <li><b>changefreq</b> (optional) - indicates how frequently the page is likely to change.
          This value provides general information to assist search engines, but may not correlate
          exactly to how often they crawl the page. Valid values are: <codeph>always</codeph>,
            <codeph>hourly</codeph>, <codeph>daily</codeph>, <codeph>weekly</codeph>,
            <codeph>monthly</codeph>, <codeph>yearly</codeph>, and <codeph>never</codeph>. The first
          time the <filepath>sitemap.xml</filepath> file is generated, the value is set based upon
          the value of the <codeph>webhelp.sitemap.change.frequency</codeph> parameter in the DITA
          WebHelp transformation scenario. You can change the value in each <codeph>url</codeph>
          element by editing the <filepath>sitemap.xml</filepath> file.<note>The value
              <codeph>always</codeph> should be used to describe documents that change each time
            they are accessed. The value <codeph>never</codeph> should be used to describe archived
            URLs.</note></li>
        <li><b>priority</b> (optional) - the priority of this page relative to other pages on your
          site. Valid values range from 0.0 to 1.0. This value does not affect how your pages are
          compared to pages on other sites. It only lets the search engines know which pages you
          deem most important for the crawlers. The first time the <filepath>sitemap.xml</filepath>
          file is generated, the value is set based upon the value of the
            <codeph>webhelp.sitemap.priority</codeph> parameter in the DITA WebHelp transformation
          scenario. You can change the value in each <codeph>url</codeph> element by editing the
            <filepath>sitemap.xml</filepath> file.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <section id="creating_and_editing_the_sitemapxml_file"
      product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">
      <title>Creating and Editing the <filepath>sitemap.xml</filepath> File</title>
      <p>Follow these steps to produce a <filepath>sitemap.xml</filepath> file for your WebHelp
        system, which can then be edited to fine-tune search engine optimization:<ol
          id="ol_z2w_ytt_kq">
          <li><uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol> the transformation scenario you currently use for
            obtaining your WebHelp output. This opens the <uicontrol>Edit DITA Scenario</uicontrol>
            dialog box.</li>
          <li>Open the <uicontrol>Parameters</uicontrol> tab and set a value for the following
              parameters:<ul id="ul_fzz_l5t_kq">
              <li><b>webhelp.sitemap.base.url</b> - the URL of the location where your WebHelp
                system is deployed <note>This parameter is required for <ph keyref="product"/> to
                  generate the <filepath>sitemap.xml</filepath> file.</note></li>
              <li><b>webhelp.sitemap.change.frequency</b> - how frequently the WebHelp pages are
                likely to change (accepted values are: <codeph>always</codeph>,
                  <codeph>hourly</codeph>, <codeph>daily</codeph>, <codeph>weekly</codeph>,
                  <codeph>monthly</codeph>, <codeph>yearly</codeph>, and
                <codeph>never</codeph>)</li>
              <li><b>webhelp.sitemap.priority</b> - the priority of each page (value ranging from
                0.0 to 1.0)</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li>Run the transformation scenario.</li>
          <li>Look for the <filepath>sitemap.xml</filepath> file in the transformation's output
            folder. Edit the file to fine-tune the parameters of each page, according to your
            needs.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
