<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="webhelp-customization-ol-numbering">
  <title>How to Change Numbering Styles for Ordered Lists</title>
  <body>
    <p>Ordered lists (<codeph>ol</codeph>) are usually numbered in XHTML output using numerals. If
      you want to change the numbering to alphabetical, follow these steps:<ol id="ul_g3s_23t_p4">
        <li>Define a custom <codeph>outputclass</codeph> value and set it as an attribute of the
          ordered list, as in the following example:<p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;ol outputclass="number-alpha">
    &lt;li>A&lt;/li>
    &lt;li>B&lt;/li>
    &lt;li>C&lt;/li>
&lt;/ol></codeblock>
          </p></li>
        <li>Add the following code snippet in a custom CSS file:<p>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-css">ol.number-alpha{
    list-style-type:lower-alpha;
}</codeblock>
          </p></li>
        <li>Reference the CSS file in a <term>WebHelp Responsive</term> transformation using <xref
            href="#webhelp-customization-ol-numbering/referencing_the_custom_css_from_a_publishing_temp"
            format="dita">an <term>Oxygen Publishing Template</term></xref> or <xref
            href="#webhelp-customization-ol-numbering/referencing_the_css_using_the_argscss_parameter"
            format="dita">the <codeph>args.css</codeph> parameter</xref>.</li>
      </ol></p>
    <section id="referencing_the_custom_css_from_a_publishing_temp">
      <title>Referencing the Custom CSS from a Publishing Template</title>
      <p>
        <ol>
          <li>If you haven't already created a Publishing Template, see <xref
              href="whr_publishing_templates.dita"/>.</li>
          <li>Using the <uicontrol product="author developer editor webhelp-responsive"
              >Project</uicontrol><uicontrol product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
              >Navigator</uicontrol> view, copy your custom CSS in a folder inside the publishing
            template root folder (for example, in the
              <filepath>custom_footer_template/resources</filepath> folder).</li>
          <li>Open the <xref href="whr_publishing_template_contents.dita#template_descritpor_file"
              >template descriptor file</xref> associated with your publishing template and add your
            custom CSS in the <term>resources</term>
            section.<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;publishing-template>
    ...
    &lt;webhelp>
        ...                
        &lt;resources>            
            ...          
            &lt;css file="resources/MyCustom.css"/></codeblock></li>
          <li>Open the <term>DITA Map WebHelp Responsive</term> transformation scenario.</li>
          <li>Click the <uicontrol>Choose Custom Publishing Template</uicontrol> link and select
            your template.</li>
          <li>Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> to save the changes to the transformation
            scenario.</li>
          <li>Run the transformation scenario.</li>
        </ol>
      </p>
      <p><b>Result:</b> Your custom CSS will be applied as a final layer on top of any existing CSS
        rules and the output will reflect the changes you made.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="referencing_the_css_using_the_argscss_parameter">
      <title>Referencing the CSS Using the <i>args.css</i> Parameter</title>
      <p>
        <ol>
          <li>Edit the <term>DITA Map WebHelp Responsive</term> transformation scenario and open the
              <uicontrol>Parameters</uicontrol> tab.</li>
          <li>Set the <codeph>args.css</codeph> parameter to the path of your custom CSS file.</li>
          <li>Set the <codeph>args.copycss</codeph> parameter to <codeph>yes</codeph> to
            automatically copy your custom CSS in the output folder when the transformation scenario
            is processed.</li>
          <li>Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> to save the changes to the transformation
            scenario.</li>
          <li>Run the transformation scenario.</li>
        </ol>
      </p>
      <p><b>Result:</b> Your custom CSS will be applied as a final layer on top of any existing CSS
        rules and the output will reflect the changes you made.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
