<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="webhelp-customization-add-image-to-title-classic">
  <title>How to Add a Logo Image in the Title Area</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
          >WebHelp Classic<indexterm>Add logo image</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm product="webhelp">Adding a logo</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_lhp_cgk_54b">You can customize <b>WebHelp Classic</b> output to include a logo in the title area. It will
      be displayed before the publication title. You can also specify a URL that can be used to send
      users to a specific website when they click the logo image.</p>
    <p id="p_mhp_cgk_54b">This customization can be done using a transformation scenario from within <b>Oxygen XML
        Editor/Author</b> or using a command-line script outside of <b>Oxygen XML
      Editor/Author</b>.</p>
    <section id="using_oxygen_xml_editorauthor">
      <title>Using Oxygen XML Editor/Author</title>
      <p id="p_nhp_cgk_54b">To add a logo in the title area of your WebHelp output using a transformation scenario from
        within <b>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</b>, follow this procedure:<ol id="ol_ohp_cgk_54b">
          <li id="li_php_cgk_54b">Edit a <b>WebHelp Classic</b> transformation scenario, then open the
              <uicontrol>Parameters</uicontrol> tab.</li>
          <li id="li_qhp_cgk_54b">Specify the path to your logo in the <codeph>webhelp.logo.image</codeph>
            parameter.</li>
          <li id="li_rhp_cgk_54b">If you also want to add a link to your website when you click the logo image, set the
            URL in the <codeph>webhelp.logo.image.target.url</codeph> parameter.</li>
          <li id="li_shp_cgk_54b">Run the transformation scenario.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="from_a_command_line">
      <title>Using a Script Outside of Oxygen XML Editor/Author</title>
      <note conkeyref="reusables-transforming-documents/note-command-line"
        product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse" id="note_thp_cgk_54b"/>
      <p id="p_uhp_cgk_54b">To add a logo in the title area of your WebHelp output using a script outside of <b>Oxygen
          XML Editor/Author</b>, follow this procedure:<ol id="ol_vhp_cgk_54b">
          <li id="li_whp_cgk_54b">Specify the path to your logo using the <codeph>webhelp.logo.image</codeph>
            parameter.</li>
          <li id="li_xhp_cgk_54b">If you also want to add a link to your website when you click the logo image, set the
            URL using the <codeph>webhelp.logo.image.target.url</codeph> parameter.</li>
          <li id="li_yhp_cgk_54b">
            <p id="p_zhp_cgk_54b">Execute the transformation script.</p>
          </li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
