<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="webhelp-customization-css">
  <title>Customizing WebHelp Output Through CSS Styling</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>WebHelp Classic output<indexterm>Use custom CSS</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>WebHelp Responsive output<indexterm>Use custom CSS</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>The most common way to customize the look and style of your WebHelp output is to use custom
      CSS styling. This method can be used to make small, simple styling changes or more advanced,
      precise changes. To implement the styling in your WebHelp output, you simply need to create
      the custom CSS file and reference it in your transformation scenario or script. This custom
      file will be the final CSS to be applied so its content will override the styles in the other
      pre-existing CSS files.</p>
    <section id="using_css_inspector_to_identify_content_for_custo">
      <title>Using the CSS Inspector to Identify Content for Custom CSS File</title>
      <p>You can use your browser's CSS inspector to identify the pertinent code in the current CSS
        files and you can even make changes directly in the CSS inspector to test the results so
        that you know exactly what content to use in your custom CSS file.</p>
      <p>In most popular browsers (such as Chrome, Firefox, and Edge), you can access the CSS
        inspector by using <uicontrol><shortcut>F12</shortcut></uicontrol> or by selecting
          <uicontrol>Inspect Element</uicontrol> (or simply <uicontrol>Inspect</uicontrol>) from the
        contextual menu.<note type="tip">When using Safari on Mac OS X, you must first enable the
          Develop menu by going to the Advanced settings and selecting <uicontrol>Show Develop menu
            in menu bar</uicontrol>. Then you can select <uicontrol>Show Web Inspector</uicontrol>
          from the Develop menu or click <uicontrol><shortcut>Command + Option +
            I</shortcut></uicontrol>.</note></p>
    </section>
    <section id="using_oxygen_xml_editorauthor">
      <title>Referencing the Custom CSS Using Oxygen XML Editor/Author</title>
      <p>To use a custom CSS to style WebHelp output and use a transformation scenario from within
          <b>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</b>, follow this procedure:<ol>
          <li>Create your custom CSS file.</li>
          <li><ph conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/transform-parameters-tab-ph"/><ul>
              <li><ph conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/DITA-parameters-ph"/></li>
              <li><ph conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/DocBook-parameters-ph"/></li>
            </ul></li>
          <li>Run the WebHelp transformation scenario to generate the output.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="using_a_script_outside_of_oxygen_xml_editorauthor">
      <title>Referencing the Custom CSS Using a Script Outside of Oxygen XML Editor/Author</title>
      <note conkeyref="reusables-transforming-documents/note-command-line"
        product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"/>
      <p>To use a custom CSS to style WebHelp output and use a <xref
          href="using-the-webhelp-plugin.dita#using-the-webhelp-plugin">script outside of <b>Oxygen
            XML Editor/Author</b></xref>, follow this procedure:<ol>
          <li>Create your custom CSS file.</li>
          <li>Reference your custom CSS file:<ul>
              <li>For DITA transformations, use the <codeph>args.css</codeph> parameter in your
                transformation script and set its value to the path of your custom CSS file. Also,
                set the <codeph>args.copycss</codeph> parameter to <codeph>yes</codeph> to
                automatically copy your custom CSS in the output folder when the transformation
                scenario is processed.</li>
              <li>For DocBook transformations, use the <codeph>html.stylesheet</codeph> parameter in
                your transformation script and set its value to the path of your custom CSS
                file.</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li>Execute the transformation script.</li>
        </ol></p>
      <p>For example, a DITA script might look like this::<ul>
          <li><b>Windows:</b><p><codeph>dita.bat -i c:\mySample.ditamap -f webhelp
                -Dargs.css=c:\myFile.css -Dargs.copycss=yes</codeph></p></li>
          <li><b>Mac OS X/ Linux:</b><p><codeph>dita -i C:/mySample.ditamap -f webhelp
                -Dargs.css=C:/myFile.css -Dargs.copycss=yes</codeph></p></li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
