<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="webhelp-responsive-sharepoint">
  <title>How to Deploy the Output on a SharePoint Site</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
          >WebHelp Responsive<indexterm>Deploying on SharePoint</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm product="webhelp-responsive ope">Deploying on SharePoint</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_ur4_cgk_54b">Since WebHelp output must be published locally, on the same machine where the WebHelp process
      is running, to publish your files directly to a SharePoint library you need to map a network
      drive to connect to SharePoint and change your file extensions to <filepath>.aspx</filepath>,
      as described in the steps below.</p>
    <section id="using_a_script_outside_of_oxygen_xml_editorauthor">
      <title>Using a Script Outside of Oxygen XML Editor/Author</title>
      <p id="p_vr4_cgk_54b">To publish WebHelp Responsive output on a SharePoint site using an <xref
          keyref="wh-publishing-template"><term>Oxygen Publishing Template</term></xref>, follow
        this procedure:<ol id="ol_wr4_cgk_54b">
          <li id="li_xr4_cgk_54b">Map a network drive to connect to your SharePoint library. For more information, see:
              <xref href="https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/kb/2616712" format="html"
              scope="external"/>.</li>
          <li id="li_yr4_cgk_54b">To allow browsers to open your published files (rather than downloading them), you
            need to change the file extensions from <filepath>.html</filepath> to
              <filepath>.aspx</filepath>.</li>
          <li id="li_zr4_cgk_54b">Open the <xref href="whr_publishing_template_contents.dita#template_descritpor_file"
              >template descriptor file</xref> associated with your publishing template and add the
              <codeph>args.outext</codeph> parameter in the <term>parameters</term> section with its
            value set to
            <codeph>.aspx</codeph>.<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_as4_cgk_54b">&lt;publishing-template>
    ...
    &lt;webhelp>
        ...                
        &lt;parameters>
            &lt;parameter name="args.outext" value=".aspx"/>
        &lt;/parameters>
    &lt;/webhelp></codeblock></li>
          <li id="li_bs4_cgk_54b">Open the <term>DITA Map WebHelp Responsive</term> transformation scenario.</li>
          <li id="li_cs4_cgk_54b">Click the <uicontrol>Choose Custom Publishing Template</uicontrol> link and select
            your template.</li>
          <li id="li_ds4_cgk_54b">Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> to save the changes to the transformation
            scenario.</li>
          <li id="li_es4_cgk_54b">Run the transformation scenario.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="using_oxygen_xml_editorauthor">
      <title>Using a Transformation Scenario in Oxygen XML Editor/Author</title>
      <p id="p_fs4_cgk_54b">To publish WebHelp Responsive output on a SharePoint site using a transformation scenario
        from within <b>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</b>, follow this procedure:<ol id="ol_gs4_cgk_54b">
          <li id="li_hs4_cgk_54b">Map a network drive to connect to your SharePoint library. For more information, see:
              <xref href="https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/kb/2616712" format="html"
              scope="external"/>.</li>
          <li id="li_is4_cgk_54b">To allow browsers to open your published files (rather than downloading them), you
            need to change the file extensions from <filepath>.html</filepath> to
              <filepath>.aspx</filepath>. Fortunately, this can be done in the transformation.<ol id="ol_js4_cgk_54b">
              <li id="li_ks4_cgk_54b"><ph conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/transform-parameters-tab-ph"/></li>
              <li id="li_ls4_cgk_54b">Set the <codeph>args.outext</codeph> parameter to <codeph>.aspx</codeph>.</li>
              <li id="li_ms4_cgk_54b">Run the transformation scenario.</li>
            </ol></li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
