<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="webhelp-output">
  <title>Customizing the
    <?oxy_comment_start author="Steven" timestamp="20180212T105811+0200" comment="Let&apos;s make this a &quot;How to&quot; section with just the task (procedure) related topics. Remember to add links to the concept chapter."?><?oxy_comment_start author="radu_pisoi" timestamp="20180213T144934+0200" comment="TODO: check if this page is suitable for all products." mid="1"?>WebHelp
    <?oxy_comment_end?><?oxy_comment_end mid="1"?>Responsive Output</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>WebHelp output customization</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> provides support for customizing the <b>WebHelp Responsive</b> output
      to suit your specific needs. The <b>WebHelp Responsive</b> type of output features a very
      flexible layout and is designed to adapt to any device and screen size to provide an optimal
      viewing and interaction experience. It is based upon the <i>Bootstrap</i> responsive front-end
      framework and is available for DITA document types. The <b>WebHelp Responsive with
        Feedback</b> variant allows your users to add comments to your output. </p>
    <p
      product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse webhelp-responsive"
      >To change the overall appearance of your <b>WebHelp Responsive</b> output, you can use
      several different customization methods or a combination of methods. If you are familiar with
      CSS and coding, you can style your WebHelp output through your own custom stylesheets. You can
      also customize your output by modifying existing templates, <xref
        keyref="whr-html-layout-pages">create your own templates</xref>, or by configuring certain
      options and parameters in the transformation scenario.</p>
    <p>This section includes topics that explain various ways to customize your WebHelp Responsive
      system output, such as how to configure the tiles on the main page, add logos in the title
      area, integrate with social media, localizing the interface, and much more.</p>
    <p> </p>
  </body>
</topic>
