<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="webhelp-change-toc-icons">
  <title>Changing the Icons in a WebHelp Classic Table of Contents</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
          >WebHelp Classic<indexterm>Changing icons in the table of contents</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm product="webhelp">Changing icons in the table of contents</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>You can change the icons that appear in a WebHelp Classic table of contents by assigning new
      image files in a custom CSS file. By default, these icons are defined with the following CSS
      codes (the first example is the icon that appears for a collapsed menu and the second for an
      expanded
      menu):<codeblock outputclass="language-css">.hasSubMenuClosed{
    background: url('../img/book_closed16.png') no-repeat;
    padding-left: 16px;
    cursor: pointer;
}</codeblock><codeblock outputclass="language-css">.hasSubMenuOpened{
    background: url('../img/book_opened16.png') no-repeat;
    padding-left: 16px;
    cursor: pointer;
}</codeblock></p>
    <section id="using_oxygen_xml_editorauthor">
      <title>Using Oxygen XML Editor/Author</title>
      <p>To assign other icons and use a transformation scenario from within <b>Oxygen XML
          Editor/Author</b>, follow this procedure:<ol>
          <li>Create a custom CSS file that assigns your desired icons to the
              <codeph>.hasSubMenuClosed</codeph> and <codeph>.hasSubMenuOpened</codeph>
            properties.<codeblock outputclass="language-css">.hasSubMenuClosed{
    background: url('TOC-my-closed-button.png') no-repeat;
}</codeblock><codeblock outputclass="language-css">.hasSubMenuOpened{
    background: url('TOC-my-opened-button.png') no-repeat;
}</codeblock></li>
          <li><ph conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/image-files-folder-ph"/><ul>
              <li><ph conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/DITA-image-path-ph"/></li>
              <li><ph conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/DocBook-image-path-ph"/></li>
            </ul></li>
          <li><ph conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/transform-parameters-tab-ph"/><ul>
              <li><ph conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/DITA-parameters-ph"/></li>
              <li><ph conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/DocBook-parameters-ph"/></li>
            </ul></li>
          <li>Run the WebHelp transformation scenario to generate the output.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="using_a_script_outside_of_oxygen_xml_editorauthor">
      <title>Using a Script Outside of Oxygen XML Editor/Author</title>
      <note conkeyref="reusables-transforming-documents/note-command-line"
        product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"/>
      <p>To assign other icons and use a <xref
          href="using-the-webhelp-plugin.dita#using-the-webhelp-plugin">script outside of <b>Oxygen
            XML Editor/Author</b></xref>, follow this procedure:<ol>
          <li>Create a custom CSS file that assigns your desired icons to the
              <codeph>.hasSubMenuClosed</codeph> and <codeph>.hasSubMenuOpened</codeph>
            properties.<codeblock outputclass="language-css">.hasSubMenuClosed{
    background: url('TOC-my-closed-button.png') no-repeat;
}</codeblock><codeblock outputclass="language-css">.hasSubMenuOpened{
    background: url('TOC-my-opened-button.png') no-repeat;
}</codeblock></li>
          <li><ph conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/image-files-folder-ph"/><ul>
              <li><ph conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/DITA-image-path-ph"/></li>
              <li><ph id="DocBook-image-path-ph">For DocBook transformations: <filepath>[DocBook XSL
                    directory]\com.oxygenxml.webhelp.classic\oxygen-webhelp\resources\img\</filepath>.</ph></li>
            </ul></li>
          <li>Reference your custom CSS file:<ul>
              <li>For DITA transformations, use the <codeph>args.css</codeph> parameter in your
                transformation script and set its value to the path of your custom CSS file. Also,
                set the <codeph>args.copycss</codeph> parameter to <codeph>yes</codeph> to
                automatically copy your custom CSS in the output folder when the transformation
                scenario is processed.</li>
              <li>For DocBook transformations, use the <codeph>html.stylesheet</codeph> parameter in
                your transformation script and set its value to the path of your custom CSS
                file.</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li>Execute the transformation script.</li>
        </ol></p>
      <p>For example, a DITA script might look like this::<ul>
          <li><b>Windows:</b><p><codeph>dita.bat -i c:\mySample.ditamap -f webhelp
                -Dargs.css=c:\myFile.css -Dargs.copycss=yes</codeph></p></li>
          <li><b>Mac OS X/ Linux:</b><p><codeph>dita -i C:/mySample.ditamap -f webhelp
                -Dargs.css=C:/myFile.css -Dargs.copycss=yes</codeph></p></li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
