<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="webhelp_template_components">
  <title>HTML Layout Pages Components</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>WebHelp Responsive
            system<indexterm>Templates<indexterm>Components</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>A WebHelp Responsive
        <?oxy_comment_start author="radu_pisoi" timestamp="20180213T204557+0200" comment="Specify a gloss entry"?><term>layout
        page component</term><?oxy_comment_end?> adds dynamics to a WebHelp
        <i><?oxy_comment_start author="radu_pisoi" timestamp="20180213T204502+0200" comment="Glossentry for HTML Layout Page."?>HTML
        Layout Page<?oxy_comment_end?></i>. The rendering of a component depends on the context of
      where it is placed and its content depends on the transformed <xref
        keyref="glossentry_ditamap"><term>DITA map</term></xref>.</p>
    <p>Some of the components can be used in all the types of HTML layout pages, while some are only
      available for certain pages. For instance, the <i>Publication Title</i> component can be used
      in all pages, but the <i>Navigation Breadcrumb</i> component can only be used in <i>Topic
        Layout Page</i> page.</p>
    <p>To include a <term>layout page component</term> in the output of a particular type of
        <term>HTML layout page</term>, you have to reference a specific element in the particular
      template file. All the elements associated with a template component should belong to the
        <codeph>http://www.oxygenxml.com/webhelp/components</codeph> namespace.</p>
    <p>Every component could contain custom content or reference another component. To specify where
      the component content will be located in the output you can use the
        <codeph>component_content</codeph> element as a descendant of the component element.</p>
    <p><b>Example:</b><codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_search_input class="navbar-form wh_main_page_search"
              role="form" >
        &lt;whc:include_html href="{$webhelp.include.before.search}"/>        
		&lt;div class="search_input">
			&lt;whc:component_content/>
		&lt;/div>
&lt;/whc:webhelp_search_input></codeblock></p>
    <p>The various components and where they can be used are as follows:</p>
    <section id="section_publication_title">
      <title><ph conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/wh_publication_title"/>
        [webhelp_publication_title]</title>
      <p>This component generates the publication title in the output. To generate this component,
        the <codeph>webhelp_publication_title</codeph> element must be specified in the template
        file. It can be used in all four types of template pages:<ul>
          <li conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/main-page"/>
          <li conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/topic"/>
          <li conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/search-results"/>
          <li conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/index-terms"/>
        </ul></p>
      <p>In the template file, the <codeph>webhelp_publication_title</codeph> element can be
        specified as in the following example:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_publication_title 
     xmlns:whc="http://www.oxygenxml.com/webhelp/components"/></codeblock>
      <p>In the output, you will find an element with the class:
          <codeph>wh_publication_title</codeph>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_publication_logo">
      <title><ph conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/wh_publication_logo"/>
        [webhelp_logo]</title>
      <p>This component generates a logo image in the output. To generate this component, the
          <codeph>webhelp_logo</codeph> element must be specified in the template file. It can be
        used in all four types of template pages:<ul>
          <li conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/main-page"/>
          <li conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/topic"/>
          <li conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/search-results"/>
          <li conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/index-terms"/>
        </ul></p>
      <p>In the template file, the <codeph>webhelp_logo</codeph> element can be specified as in the
        following
        example:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_logo 
     xmlns:whc="http://www.oxygenxml.com/webhelp/components"/></codeblock></p>
      <p>In addition, you must also specify the path of the logo image in the
          <codeph>webhelp.logo.image</codeph> transformation parameter (in the
          <uicontrol>Parameters</uicontrol> tab in the transformation scenario). You can set the
          <codeph>webhelp.logo.image.target.url</codeph> parameter to generate a link to a URL when
        you click the logo image. If this parameter is not set, a link to the home page will
        automatically be generated.</p>
      <p>In the output, you will find an element with the class: <codeph>wh_logo</codeph>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_search_input">
      <title><ph id="wh_search_input">Search Input</ph> [webhelp_search_input]</title>
      <p>This component is used to generate the input widget associated with search function in the
        output. To generate this component, the <codeph>webhelp_search_input</codeph> element must
        be specified in the template file. It can be used in all four types of template pages:<ul>
          <li conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/main-page"/>
          <li conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/topic"/>
          <li conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/search-results"/>
          <li conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/index-terms"/>
        </ul></p>
      <p>In the template file, the <codeph>wh_search_input</codeph> element can be specified as in
        the following
        example:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_search_input 
     xmlns:whc="http://www.oxygenxml.com/webhelp/components"/></codeblock></p>
      <p>In the output, you will find an element with the class:
          <codeph>wh_search_input</codeph>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_search_results">
      <title><ph id="wh_search_results">Search Results</ph> [webhelp_search_results]</title>
      <p>This component is used to generate a placeholder to signal where the search results will be
        presented in the output. To generate this component, the
          <codeph>webhelp_search_results</codeph> element must be specified in the template file. It
        can be used in the following type of template page:<ul>
          <li conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/search-results"/>
        </ul></p>
      <p>In the template file, the <codeph>webhelp_search_results</codeph> element can be specified
        as in the following example:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_search_results 
     xmlns:whc="http://www.oxygenxml.com/webhelp/components"/></codeblock>
      <p>In the output, you will find an element with the class:
        <codeph>wh_search_results</codeph>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_topic_breadcrumb">
      <title><ph conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/wh_topic_breadcrumb"/>
        [webhelp_breadcrumb]</title>
      <p>This component generates a breadcrumb that displays the path of the current topic. To
        generate this component, the <codeph>webhelp_breadcrumb</codeph> element must be specified
        in the template file. It can be used in the following type of template page:<ul>
          <li conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/topic"/>
        </ul></p>
      <p>In the template file, the <codeph>webhelp_breadcrub</codeph> element can be specified as in
        the following
        example:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_breadcrumb 
     xmlns:whc="http://www.oxygenxml.com/webhelp/components"/></codeblock></p>
      <p>In the output, you will find an element with the class: <codeph>wh_breadcrumb</codeph>.
        This element will contain a list with items that correspond to the topics in the path. The
        first item in the list has a link to the main page with the <codeph>home</codeph> class. The
        last item in the list corresponds to the current topic and has the <codeph>active</codeph>
        class set.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_navigational_links">
      <title><ph conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/wh_navigation_links"/>
        [webhelp_navigation_links]</title>
      <p>This component generates navigation links to the next and previous topics. To generate this
        component, the <codeph>webhelp_navigation_links</codeph> element must be specified in the
        template file. It can be used in the following type of template page:<ul>
          <li conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/topic"/>
        </ul></p>
      <p>In the template file, the <codeph>webhelp_navigation_links</codeph> element can be
        specified as in the following
        example:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_navigation_links 
     xmlns:whc="http://www.oxygenxml.com/webhelp/components"/></codeblock></p>
      <p>In the output, you will find an element with the class:
          <codeph>wh_navigation_links</codeph>. This element will contain the links to the next and
        previous topics.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_topic_content">
      <title><ph conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/wh_topic_content"/>
        [webhelp_topic_content]</title>
      <p>This component generates the content of a topic and it represent the content of the HTML
        files as they are produced by the DITA-OT processor. To generate this component, the
          <codeph>webhelp_topic_content</codeph> element must be specified in the template file. It
        can be used in the following type of template page:<ul>
          <li conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/topic"/>
        </ul></p>
      <p>In the template file, the <codeph>webhelp_topic_content</codeph> element can be specified
        as in the following
        example:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_topic_content 
     xmlns:whc="http://www.oxygenxml.com/webhelp/components"/></codeblock></p>
      <p>In the output, you will find an element with the class:
        <codeph>wh_topic_content</codeph>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_side_toc">
      <title><ph conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/wh_topic_side_toc"/>
        [webhelp_side_toc]</title>
      <p>This component generates a mini table of contents for the current topic. It will contain
        links to the children of current topic, its siblings, and all of its ancestors. To generate
        this component, the <codeph>webhelp_side_toc</codeph> element must be specified in the
        template file. It can be used in the following type of template page:<ul>
          <li conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/topic"/>
        </ul></p>
      <p>In the template file, the <codeph>webhelp_side_toc</codeph> element can be specified as in
        the following
        example:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_side_toc 
     xmlns:whc="http://www.oxygenxml.com/webhelp/components"/></codeblock></p>
      <p>In the output, you will find an element with the class: <codeph>wh_side_toc</codeph>. This
        element will contain links to the topics that are close to the current topic.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_topic_feedback">
      <title><ph conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/wh_topic_feedback"/>
        [webhelp_feedback]</title>
      <p>This component generates a placeholder for where the comments section will be presented. To
        generate this component, the <codeph>webhelp_feedback</codeph> element must be specified in
        the template file. It can be used in the following type of template page:<ul>
          <li conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/topic"/>
        </ul></p>
      <p>In the template file, the <codeph>webhelp_feedback</codeph> element can be specified as in
        the following
        example:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_feedback 
     xmlns:whc="http://www.oxygenxml.com/webhelp/components"/></codeblock></p>
    </section>
    <section id="webhelp_child_links">
      <title><ph conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/wh_child_links"/>
        [webhelp_child_links]</title>
      <p>For all topics with subtopics (child topics), this component generates a list of links to
        each child topic. To generate this component, the <codeph>webhelp_child_links</codeph>
        element must be specified in the template file. It can be used in the following type of
        template page:<ul>
          <li conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/topic"/>
        </ul></p>
      <p>In the template file, the <codeph>webhelp_child_links</codeph> element can be specified as
        in the following
        example:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_child_links 
     xmlns:whc="http://www.oxygenxml.com/webhelp/components"/></codeblock></p>
    </section>
    <section id="webhelp_related_links">
      <title><ph conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/wh_related_links"/>
        [webhelp_related_links]</title>
      <p>For all topics that contain related links, this component generates a list of related links
        that will appear in the output. To generate this component, the
          <codeph>webhelp_related_links</codeph> element must be specified in the template file. It
        can be used in the following type of template page:<ul>
          <li conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/topic"/>
        </ul></p>
      <p>In the template file, the <codeph>webhelp_related_links</codeph> element can be specified
        as in the following
        example:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_related_links 
     xmlns:whc="http://www.oxygenxml.com/webhelp/components"/></codeblock></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_main_page_topic_tiles">
      <title><ph conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/wh_main_page_topic_tiles"/>
        [webhelp_tiles]</title>
      <p>This component generates the tiles section in the main page. This section will contain a
        tile for each root topic of the published documentation. Each topic tile has three sections
        that corresponds to the topic title, short description, and image. To generate this
        component, the <codeph>webhelp_tiles</codeph> element must be specified in the template
        file. It can be used in the following type of template page:<ul>
          <li conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/main-page"/>
        </ul></p>
      <p>In the template file, the <codeph>webhelp_tiles</codeph> element can be specified as in the
        following example:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_tiles 
     xmlns:whc="http://www.oxygenxml.com/webhelp/components"/></codeblock>
      <p>In the output, you will find an element with the class: <codeph>wh_tiles</codeph>.</p>
      <p>If you want to control the HTML structure that is generated for a WebHelp tile you can also
        specify the template for a tile by using the <codeph>whc:webhelp_tile</codeph> component, as
        in the following example:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_tile class="col-md-4">                    
  &lt;!-- Place holder for tile's image -->
  &lt;whc:webhelp_tile_image/>                        
                    
  &lt;div class="wh_tile_text">
    &lt;!-- Place holder for tile's title -->
     &lt;whc:webhelp_tile_title/>
                       
     &lt;!-- Place holder for tile's shordesc -->
     &lt;whc:webhelp_tile_shortdesc/>
  &lt;/div>
&lt;/whc:webhelp_tile></codeblock>
      <p>For information about customizing the tiles, see <xref
          href="whr-configure-tiles.dita#whr-configure-tiles"/>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_main_page_toc">
      <title><ph conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/wh_main_page_toc"/>
        [webhelp_main_page_toc]</title>
      <p>This component generates a simplified Table of Contents. It is simplified because it
        contains only two levels from the documentation hierarchy. To generate this component, the
          <codeph>webhelp_main_page_toc</codeph> element must be specified in the template file. It
        can be used in the following type of template page:<ul>
          <li conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/main-page"/>
        </ul></p>
      <p>In the template file, the <codeph>webhelp_main_page_toc</codeph> element can be specified
        as in the following example:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_main_page_toc 
     xmlns:whc="http://www.oxygenxml.com/webhelp/components"/></codeblock>
      <p>In the output, you will find an element with the class:
        <codeph>wh_main_page_toc</codeph>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_main_page_menu">
      <title><ph conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/wh_menu"/> [webhelp_topics_menu]</title>
      <p>This component generates a menu with all the documentation topics. To generate this
        component, the <codeph>webhelp_topics_menu</codeph> element must be specified in the
        template file. It can be used in the following type of template page:<ul>
          <li conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/main-page"/>
        </ul></p>
      <p>In the template file, the <codeph>webhelp_topics_menu</codeph> element can be specified as
        in the following
        example:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_topics_menu 
     xmlns:whc="http://www.oxygenxml.com/webhelp/components"/></codeblock></p>
      <p>In the output, you will find an element with the class:
        <codeph>wh_topics_menu</codeph>.</p>
      <p>You can control the maximum level of topics that will be included in the menu using the
          <codeph>webhelp.top.menu.depth</codeph> transformation parameter (in the
          <uicontrol>Parameters</uicontrol> tab of the transformation scenario.</p>
      <p>For information about customizing the menu, see <xref
          href="whr-customize-menu.dita#whr-customize-menu"/>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_print_link">
      <title><ph conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/wh_print_link"/>
        [webhelp_print_link]</title>
      <p>This component is used to generate a print icon that opens the print dialog box for your
        particular browser. To generate this component, the <codeph>webhelp_print_link</codeph>
        element must be specified in the template file. It can be used in the following type of
        template page:<ul>
          <li conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/topic"/>
        </ul></p>
      <p>In the template file, the <codeph>webhelp_print_link</codeph> element can be specified as
        in the following
        example:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_print_link 
     xmlns:whc="http://www.oxygenxml.com/webhelp/components"/></codeblock></p>
      <p>In the output, you will find an element with the class: <codeph>wh_print_link</codeph>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="include_html_files_webhelp_include_html">
      <title><ph id="wh_include_HTML_files">Include HTML files</ph> [webhelp_include_html]</title>
      <p>This component can be used to include custom HTML files. To generate this component, the
          <codeph>include_html</codeph> element must be specified in the template file. It can be
        used in all four types of template pages:<ul>
          <li conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/main-page"/>
          <li conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/topic"/>
          <li conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/search-results"/>
          <li conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/index-terms"/>
        </ul></p>
      <p>In the template file, the <codeph>include_html</codeph> element can be specified as in the
        following example:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:include_html href="${wh.param}"/></codeblock>
      <p>Where the <codeph>href</codeph> can have the following values:</p>
      <ul id="ul_tdb_t1s_lv">
        <li><b>any URL</b> - In this case, the file to be included is specified as an URL.</li>
        <li><b>{$oxygen-webhelp-template-dir}/file_to_include.html</b> - To include resources that
          are part of the template.</li>
        <li><b>${webhelp.param}</b> - To include a resource whose path is specified through a
          WebHelp transformation scenario parameter. The value of this parameter can be a simple
          HTML fragment, in which case it will be copied to the output.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="section_index_terms_link">
      <title><ph conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/wh_index_terms_link"/>
        [webhelp_indexterms_link]</title>
      <p>This component can be used to generate a link to the index terms page
          (<codeph>indexterms.html</codeph>). If the published documentation does not contains any
        index terms, then the link will not be generated. To generate this component, the
          <codeph>webhelp_indexterms_link</codeph> element must be specified in the template file.
        It can be used in all four types of template pages:<ul>
          <li conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/main-page"/>
          <li conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/topic"/>
          <li conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/search-results"/>
          <li conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/index-terms"/>
        </ul></p>
      <p>In the template file, the <codeph>webhelp_indexterms_link</codeph> element can be specified
        as in the following example:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_indexterms_link 
     xmlns:whc="http://www.oxygenxml.com/webhelp/components"/></codeblock>
      <p>In the output, you will find an element with the class:
          <codeph>wh_indexterms_link</codeph>. This element will contain a link to the
          <codeph>indexterms.html</codeph> page.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_skin_resources">
      <title><ph conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/wh_skin_resources"/>
        [webhelp_skin_resources]</title>
      <p>This component can be used to add a link to resources for the current WebHelp skin (such as
        the CSS file). To generate this component, the <codeph>webhelp_skin_resources</codeph>
        element must be specified in the template file. It can be used in all four types of template pages:<ul>
          <li conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/main-page"/>
          <li conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/topic"/>
          <li conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/search-results"/>
          <li conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/index-terms"/>
        </ul></p>
      <p>In the template file, the <codeph>webhelp_skin_resources</codeph> element can be specified
        as in the following example:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_skin_resources/></codeblock>
      <p>In the output, you will find a link to the skin resources.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
