<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="webhelp-customizing-with-css">
  <title>How to Use CSS Styling to Customize the Output</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
          >WebHelp Responsive <indexterm>CSS styling</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
          >WebHelp Responsive <indexterm>Customizing output with CSS</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm product="webhelp-responsive ope">CSS styling</indexterm>
        <indexterm product="webhelp-responsive ope">Customizing output with CSS</indexterm>
      </keywords>
      <keywords>
        <keyword outputclass="label" product="webhelp-responsive">CSS Styling</keyword>
        <keyword outputclass="label" product="webhelp-responsive">Publishing Template</keyword>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_jrn_cgk_54b">The most common way to customize WebHelp Responsive output is to use custom CSS styling. This
      method can be used to make small, simple styling changes or more advanced, precise changes. To
      implement the styling in your WebHelp output, you simply need to create the custom CSS file
      and reference it in your transformation scenario (using an <xref
        keyref="glossentry-wh-publishing-template"><term>Oxygen Publishing Template</term></xref> or
      a transformation parameter). This custom file will be the final CSS to be applied so its
      content will override the styles in the other pre-existing CSS files.</p>
  </body>
  <topic id="whr-browser-inspect">
    <title>Using CSS Inspector to Identify Content for Custom CSS File</title>
    <body>
      <p id="p_krn_cgk_54b">You can use your browser's CSS inspector to identify the pertinent code in the current CSS
        files and you can even make changes directly in the CSS inspector to test the results so
        that you know exactly what content to use in your custom CSS file.</p>
      <p id="p_lrn_cgk_54b">In most popular browsers (such as Chrome, Firefox, and Edge), you can access the CSS
        inspector by using <uicontrol><shortcut>F12</shortcut></uicontrol> or by selecting
          <uicontrol>Inspect Element</uicontrol> (or simply <uicontrol>Inspect</uicontrol>) from the
        contextual menu.<note type="tip" id="note_mrn_cgk_54b">When using Safari on macOS, you must first enable the
          Develop menu by going to the Advanced settings and selecting <uicontrol>Show Develop menu
            in menu bar</uicontrol>. Then you can select <uicontrol>Show Web Inspector</uicontrol>
          from the Develop menu or click <uicontrol><shortcut>Command + Option +
            I</shortcut></uicontrol>.</note></p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="whr-create-custom-css">
    <title>Create the Custom CSS</title>
    <body>
      <p id="p_nrn_cgk_54b">As a practical example, the following procedure changes the background
        color of the footer bar in the WebHelp output:<ol id="ol_orn_cgk_54b">
          <li id="li_prn_cgk_54b">Use the browser's CSS inspector to identify the current CSS code
            that styles the footer bar. In this particular case, the pertinent code that would be
            identified is:<itemgroup>
              <codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_qrn_cgk_54b">.wh_footer {
  font-size: 15px;
  line-height: 1.7em;
  background-color: #000;
}</codeblock>
            </itemgroup></li>
          <li id="li_rrn_cgk_54b">If you want to test the color you want to apply as the background
            of this particular element, use the browser's CSS inspector to change the value of the
              <codeph>background-color</codeph> attribute. After you find a suitable color, copy
            that new code. </li>
          <li id="li_srn_cgk_54b">Create a custom CSS file and paste or enter the copied code. For example:<itemgroup>
              <codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_trn_cgk_54b">.wh_footer {
  background-color: #255890;
}</codeblock>
            </itemgroup></li>
          <li id="li_urn_cgk_54b">Save the custom CSS file at a location of your convenience.</li>
          <li id="li_vrn_cgk_54b">Reference the CSS file in a <term>WebHelp Responsive</term>
            transformation using an <xref href="#whr-custom-css-pt-oxy" format="dita"><term>Oxygen
                Publishing Template</term></xref> or the <xref href="#whr-custom-css-param-oxy"
              format="dita"><codeph>args.css</codeph> parameter</xref>.</li>
        </ol><note id="note_ist_yws_vvb" type="fastpath">Regenerating the output to see the changes
          made in the CSS is not required. Instead, you can directly edit the files in
              <filepath><abbreviated-form keyref="glossentry-wh-out-dir"
            />/oxygen-webhelp/template</filepath> and reload the page in your browser. Once you
          obtained the desired output, simply copy the stylesheet back to your publishing template
          folder.</note></p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="whr-custom-css-pt-oxy">
    <title>Referencing the CSS Using a Publishing Template</title>
    <body>
      <p id="p_wrn_cgk_54b">
        <ol id="ol_xrn_cgk_54b">
          <li id="li_yrn_cgk_54b">If you have not already created a Publishing Template, see <xref
              href="ope-create-publishing-template.dita">How to Create a Publishing
            Template</xref>.</li>
          <li id="li_zrn_cgk_54b">Using the <uicontrol product="author developer editor webhelp-responsive ope"
              >Project</uicontrol><uicontrol product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
              >Project Explorer</uicontrol> view, copy your custom CSS in a folder inside the publishing
            template root folder (for example, in the
              <filepath>custom_footer_template/resources</filepath> folder).</li>
          <li id="li_asn_cgk_54b">Open the <xref href="whr_publishing_template_contents.dita#template_descritpor_file"
              >template descriptor file</xref> associated with your publishing template and add your
            custom CSS in the <term>resources</term>
            section.<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_bsn_cgk_54b">&lt;publishing-template>
    ...
    &lt;webhelp>
        ...                
        &lt;resources>            
            ...          
            &lt;css file="resources/MyCustom.css"/></codeblock></li>
          <li id="li_csn_cgk_54b">Open the <term>DITA Map WebHelp Responsive</term> transformation scenario.</li>
          <li id="li_dsn_cgk_54b">Click the <uicontrol>Choose Custom Publishing Template</uicontrol> link and select
            your template.</li>
          <li id="li_esn_cgk_54b">Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> to save the changes to the transformation
            scenario.</li>
          <li id="li_fsn_cgk_54b">Run the transformation scenario.</li>
        </ol>
      </p>
      <p id="p_gsn_cgk_54b"><b>Result:</b> Your custom CSS will be applied as a final layer on top of any existing CSS
        rules and the output will reflect the changes you made.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="whr-custom-css-param-oxy">
    <title>Referencing the CSS Using the args.css Parameter</title>
    <body>
      <p id="p_hsn_cgk_54b">
        <ol id="ol_isn_cgk_54b">
          <li id="li_jsn_cgk_54b">Edit the <term>DITA Map WebHelp Responsive</term> transformation scenario and open the
              <uicontrol>Parameters</uicontrol> tab.</li>
          <li id="li_ksn_cgk_54b">Set the <codeph>args.css</codeph> parameter to the path of your custom CSS file.</li>
          <li id="li_lsn_cgk_54b">Set the <codeph>args.copycss</codeph> parameter to <codeph>yes</codeph> to
            automatically copy your custom CSS in the output folder when the transformation scenario
            is processed.</li>
          <li id="li_msn_cgk_54b">Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> to save the changes to the transformation
            scenario.</li>
          <li id="li_nsn_cgk_54b">Run the transformation scenario.</li>
        </ol>
      </p>
      <p id="p_osn_cgk_54b"><b>Result:</b> Your custom CSS will be applied as a final layer on top of any existing CSS
        rules and the output will reflect the changes you made.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
</topic>
