<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="webhelp-customization-ol">
  <title>How to Change Ordered Lists Layout and Styles</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
          >WebHelp Responsive <indexterm>Ordered
              lists<indexterm>layout</indexterm><indexterm>styles</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm product="webhelp-responsive ope">Ordered
            lists<indexterm>layout</indexterm><indexterm>styles</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
      <keywords>
        <keyword outputclass="label" product="webhelp-responsive">Publishing Template</keyword>
        <keyword outputclass="label" product="webhelp-responsive">CSS Styling</keyword>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <topic id="topic_rl4_xdn_2hc">
    <title>How to Continue Numbering in Ordered Lists</title>
    <body>
      <p>Ordered lists (<xmlelement>ol</xmlelement>) typically begin numbering at 1 in XHTML output.
        However, in certain situations you may need to start at a given index. You can control the
        starting number using the <xmlatt>outputclass="start-x"</xmlatt> attribute (where X is the
        number you want the list to start with) on the <xmlelement>ol</xmlelement> element. This is
        especially useful when lists do not have the same
        parent:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_k1s_g2n_2hc">&lt;table frame="all">
  &lt;title>Table with nested order lists&lt;/title>
  &lt;tgroup cols="1">
    &lt;tbody>
      &lt;row>
        &lt;entry>
          &lt;ol>
            &lt;li>First Item&lt;/li>
            &lt;li>Second Item&lt;/li>
          &lt;/ol>
        &lt;/entry>
      &lt;/row>
      &lt;row>
        &lt;entry>
          &lt;ol outputclass="start-3">
            &lt;li>Third Item&lt;/li>
            &lt;li>Fourth Item&lt;/li>
          &lt;/ol>
        &lt;/entry>            
      &lt;/row>
    &lt;/tbody>
  &lt;/tgroup>
&lt;/table></codeblock></p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="topic_wx4_sdn_2hc">
    <title>How to Change Numbering Styles for Ordered Lists</title>
    <body>
      <p id="p_mvn_cgk_54b">Ordered lists (<xmlelement>ol</xmlelement>) are usually numbered in
        XHTML output using numerals. If you want to change the numbering to alphabetical, follow
        these steps:<ol id="ul_g3s_23t_p4">
          <li id="li_nvn_cgk_54b">Define a custom <xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt> value and set it as
            an attribute of the ordered list, as in the following
            example:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_ovn_cgk_54b">&lt;ol outputclass="number-alpha">
    &lt;li>A&lt;/li>
    &lt;li>B&lt;/li>
    &lt;li>C&lt;/li>
&lt;/ol></codeblock></li>
          <li id="li_pvn_cgk_54b">Add the following code snippet in a custom CSS
            file:<codeblock outputclass="language-css" id="codeblock_qvn_cgk_54b">ol.number-alpha{
    list-style-type:lower-alpha;
}</codeblock></li>
          <li id="li_rvn_cgk_54b">Reference the CSS file in a <term>WebHelp Responsive</term>
            transformation using <xref href="#./referencing_the_custom_css_from_a_publishing_temp"
              >an <term>Oxygen Publishing Template</term></xref> or <xref
              href="#./referencing_the_css_using_the_argscss_parameter"
              format="dita">the <codeph>args.css</codeph> parameter</xref>.</li>
        </ol></p>
      <section id="referencing_the_custom_css_from_a_publishing_temp">
        <title>Referencing the Custom CSS from a Publishing Template</title>
        <p id="p_svn_cgk_54b">
          <ol id="ol_tvn_cgk_54b">
            <li id="li_uvn_cgk_54b">If you have not already created a Publishing Template, see <xref
                href="ope-create-publishing-template.dita">How to Create a Publishing
                Template</xref>.</li>
            <li id="li_vvn_cgk_54b">Using the <uicontrol
                product="author developer editor webhelp-responsive ope"
                >Project</uicontrol><uicontrol
                product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">Project Explorer</uicontrol>
              view, copy your custom CSS in a folder inside the publishing template root folder (for
              example, in the <filepath>custom_footer_template/resources</filepath> folder).</li>
            <li id="li_wvn_cgk_54b">Open the <xref
                href="whr_publishing_template_contents.dita#template_descritpor_file">template
                descriptor file</xref> associated with your publishing template and add your custom
              CSS in the <term>resources</term>
              section.<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_xvn_cgk_54b">&lt;publishing-template>
    ...
    &lt;webhelp>
        ...                
        &lt;resources>            
            ...          
            &lt;css file="resources/MyCustom.css"/></codeblock></li>
            <li id="li_yvn_cgk_54b">Open the <term>DITA Map WebHelp Responsive</term> transformation
              scenario.</li>
            <li id="li_zvn_cgk_54b">Click the <uicontrol>Choose Custom Publishing
                Template</uicontrol> link and select your template.</li>
            <li id="li_awn_cgk_54b">Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> to save the changes to the
              transformation scenario.</li>
            <li id="li_bwn_cgk_54b">Run the transformation scenario.</li>
          </ol>
        </p>
        <p id="p_cwn_cgk_54b"><b>Result:</b> Your custom CSS will be applied as a final layer on top
          of any existing CSS rules and the output will reflect the changes you made.</p>
      </section>
      <section id="referencing_the_css_using_the_argscss_parameter">
        <title>Referencing the CSS Using the <i>args.css</i> Parameter</title>
        <p id="p_dwn_cgk_54b">
          <ol id="ol_ewn_cgk_54b">
            <li id="li_fwn_cgk_54b">Edit the <term>DITA Map WebHelp Responsive</term> transformation
              scenario and open the <uicontrol>Parameters</uicontrol> tab.</li>
            <li id="li_gwn_cgk_54b">Set the <codeph>args.css</codeph> parameter to the path of your
              custom CSS file.</li>
            <li id="li_hwn_cgk_54b">Set the <codeph>args.copycss</codeph> parameter to
                <codeph>yes</codeph> to automatically copy your custom CSS in the output folder when
              the transformation scenario is processed.</li>
            <li id="li_iwn_cgk_54b">Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> to save the changes to the
              transformation scenario.</li>
            <li id="li_jwn_cgk_54b">Run the transformation scenario.</li>
          </ol>
        </p>
        <p id="p_kwn_cgk_54b"><b>Result:</b> Your custom CSS will be applied as a final layer on top
          of any existing CSS rules and the output will reflect the changes you made.</p>
      </section>
    </body>
  </topic>
</topic>
