<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="webhelp_templates_mechanism">
  <title>HTML Layout Pages</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>WebHelp Responsive system<indexterm>Templates</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
    <body>
    <p>The WebHelp Responsive template mechanism is the base of the system and it is responsible for
      defining its output. It consists of a set of HTML template files and other additional
      resources (such as images, CSS, and JavaScript files). Each of the HTML template files contain
      one or more template components (such as title, table of contents, search input, etc.) whose
      placement inside the template will define the final layout of the output.</p>
    <p>This mechanism allows you to create multiple layouts simply by creating templates that define
      the location of where the various components will be displayed.</p>
    <section id="section_zjl_5sl_qv">
      <title>Creating WebHelp Responsive Templates</title>
      <p>To create a new WebHelp Responsive template, follow these steps:<ol>
          <li>Locate the following folder in your DITA-OT directory (<term
              keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"
            ></term>):<codeblock outputclass="language-ini"><term keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"></term>/plugins/com.oxygenxml.webhelp.responsive/templates/dita/</codeblock></li>
          <li>Duplicate the <filepath>bootstrap</filepath> folder and rename it to whatever you want
            your new template to be identified as (for example,
            <filepath>myTemplate</filepath>).</li>
          <li>Customize the structure of the new template according to your needs. For example, if
            you only want to keep one of the template variants, open the
              <filepath>myTemplate/variants</filepath> folder and delete all of its subdirectories,
            except for that one (for instance, the <filepath>tiles</filepath> directory). Keep in
            mind that the structure of the template directory is important. The names of folders at
            certain levels correspond to the names of templates and skins, while components and
            resources are defined and referenced in certain files or folders at specific locations
            within the directory structure. For more information, see <xref
              href="webhelp_template_resources.dita#webhelp_template_resources"/>.</li>
          <li>You can also customize the structure of the skins within the template variants. For
            example, if you only want to keep one of the skins in the <filepath>tiles</filepath>
            variant, open the <filepath>myTemplate/variants/tiles</filepath> folder and delete all
            of its subdirectory skins, except for that one (for instance, the
              <filepath>light</filepath> directory). You can also edit the <codeph>skin.css</codeph>
            file that is located in the skin directory to customize the styling. If your
            customization of the CSS file requires additional resources (such as images, fonts, or
            other CSS files), they need to be placed in the <filepath>resources</filepath> folder at
            the same level with the <filepath>skin.css</filepath> file.</li>
          <li>To customize the components that appear in the WebHelp Responsive output, you can
            modify the HTML template files that define the output. For more information, see  <xref
              href="webhelp_template_pages.dita#webhelp_template_pages"/>.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist><title>Related Information:</title><link href="wh-responsive-customization-tips.dita#wh-responsive-customization-tips"/></linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
