<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="webhelp-plugin-additional-parameters">
  <title>Additional WebHelp Plugin Parameters for DITA</title>
  <body>
    <p>You are able to append the following parameters to the command line that runs the transformation:<ul>
        <li><codeph>-Dwebhelp.copyright</codeph> - the copyright note that is added in the footer of
          the Table of Contents frame;</li>
        <li><codeph>-Dwebhelp.footer.file</codeph> - specifies the location of a well-formed XHTML
          file containing your custom footer for the document body. Corresponds to the
          WEBHELP_FOOTER_FILE XSLT parameter. The fragment must be a well-formed XHTML, with a
          single root element. As a common practice, place all the content into a &lt;div>
          element;</li>
        <li><codeph>-Dwebhelp.footer.include</codeph> - specifies whether the content of file set in
          the <codeph>-Dwebhelp.footer.file</codeph> is used as footer in the WebHelp pages. Its
          values can be <codeph>yes</codeph>, or <codeph>no</codeph>;</li>
        <li><codeph>-Dwebhelp.product.id</codeph> - the value of this parameter is a text string,
          that the <uicontrol>webhelp-feedback</uicontrol> transformation requires. It represents a
          short name of the documentation target (product). All the user comments that are posted in
          the WebHelp output pages and are added in the comments database are bound to this product
            ID;<note>You can deploy documentation for multiple products on the same
          server.</note></li>
        <li><codeph>-Dwebhelp.product.version</codeph> - the value of this parameter is a text
          string, that the <uicontrol>webhelp-feedback</uicontrol> transformation requires. It
          specifies the documentation version number, for example: 1.0, 2.5, etc. New user comments
          are bound to this version.<note> Multiple documentation versions can be deployed on the
            same server.</note></li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>In case you need to further customize the transformation process, you are able to append
      other DITA-OT parameters as well. Any parameter that you want to append must follow the
        <codeph>-D</codeph> model of the above parameters. For example, to append the
        <codeph>args.hdr</codeph> parameter,
      use:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini">-Dargs.hdr=/path/to/directory/of/header-file.html</codeblock>where
        <filepath>/path/to/directory/of/header-file.html</filepath> is the location of the directory
      that contains the header file.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
