<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="webhelp-customization-custom-header-footer">
  <title>CSS Styling to Customize WebHelp Output</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>WebHelp Classic system<indexterm>CSS styling to customize WebHelp
            output</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>WebHelp Responsive system<indexterm>CSS styling to customize WebHelp
            output</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>One way to customize WebHelp output is to use custom CSS styling. This method can be used to
      make small, simple styling changes or more advanced, precise changes. To implement the styling
      in your WebHelp output, you simply need to create the custom CSS file and reference it in your
      transformation scenario. This custom file will be the final CSS to be applied so its content
      will override the styles in the other pre-existing CSS files.</p>
    <section id="using_css_inspector_to_identify_content_for_custo">
      <title>Using CSS Inspector to Identify Content for Custom CSS File</title>
      <p>You can use your browser's CSS inspector to identify the pertinent code in the current CSS
        files and you can even make changes directly in the CSS inspector to test the results so
        that you know exactly what content to use in your custom CSS file.</p>
      <p>In most popular browsers (such as Chrome, Firefox, and Edge), you can access the CSS
        inspector by using <uicontrol><shortcut>F12</shortcut></uicontrol> or by selecting
          <uicontrol>Inspect Element</uicontrol> (or simply <uicontrol>Inspect</uicontrol>) from the
        contextual menu. When using Safari on Mac OS X, you must first enable the Develop menu by
        going to the Advanced settings and selecting <uicontrol>Show Develop menu in menu
          bar</uicontrol>. Then you can select <uicontrol>Show Web Inspector</uicontrol> from the
        Develop menu or click <uicontrol><shortcut>Command+Option+I</shortcut></uicontrol>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="example_how_to_change_the_background_color_of_the">
      <title>Example: How to Change the Background Color of the Footer Bar</title>
      <p>As a practical example, the following procedure can be used to change the background color
        of the footer bar in the WebHelp output of the <ph keyref="product"/> User Guide:<ol
          id="ol_ftc_hhy_ls">
          <li>Use the browser's CSS inspector to identify the current CSS code that styles the
            footer bar. In this particular case, the pertinent code that would be identified
            is:<codeblock outputclass="language-css">.wh_footer {
  font-size: 15px;
  line-height: 1.7em;
  background-color: #000;
}</codeblock></li>
          <li>If you want to test the color you want to apply as the background of this particular
            element, use the browser's CSS inspector to change the value of the
              <codeph>background-color</codeph> attribute. After you find a suitable color, copy
            that new code.</li>
          <li>Create a custom CSS file and paste or enter the copied code. For
            example:<codeblock outputclass="language-css">.wh_footer {
  background-color: #255890;
}</codeblock></li>
          <li>Save the custom CSS file at a location of your convenience.</li>
          <li><ph conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/transform-parameters-tab-ph"
              product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
              ></ph><ph product="webhelp">Use the following parameters in your transformation
              script:</ph><ol id="ol_ans_wc2_vs">
              <li><ph conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/DITA-parameters-ph"></ph></li>
              <li><ph conkeyref="reusable-webhelp-customizing/DocBook-parameters-ph"></ph></li>
            </ol></li>
          <li>Run the transformation <ph
              product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
              >scenario</ph><ph product="webhelp">script</ph>.</li>
        </ol></p>
      <p><b>Result:</b> Your custom CSS snippet will be applied as a final layer on top of any
        existing CSS rules and the output will reflect the changes you made.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
