<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="wh-add-custom-html-classic">
  <title>How to Add Custom HTML Content in WebHelp Classic Output</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
          >WebHelp Classic<indexterm>Add custom HTML content</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm product="webhelp">Adding custom HTML content</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>You can add custom HTML content in the WebHelp Classic output by inserting it in a
      well-formed XML file that will be referenced in the transformation. This content may include
      references to additional JavaScript, CSS, and other types of resources, or such resources can
      be inserted inline within the HTML content that is inserted in the XML file.</p>
    <section id="using_oxygen_xml_editorauthor">
      <title>Using Oxygen XML Editor/Author</title>
      <p>To include custom HTML content in the WebHelp Classic output using a transformation
        scenario from within <b>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</b>, follow this procedure:<ol>
          <li>Insert the HTML content in a well-formed XML file considering the following notes:<ul>
              <li conkeyref="reusables-transforming-documents/li-1"/>
              <li conkeyref="reusables-transforming-documents/li-2"/>
              <li conkeyref="reusables-transforming-documents/li-3"/>
            </ul></li>
          <li>Edit the WebHelp Classic transformation scenario.</li>
          <li>Go to the <uicontrol>Parameters</uicontrol> tab.</li>
          <li>Edit the value of the <codeph>webhelp.head.script</codeph> parameter and set it to
            reference the URL of the XML file created in step 1. Your additional content will be
            included at the end of the <codeph>head</codeph> element of your output
              document.<note>If you want to include the content in the <codeph>body</codeph>
              element, use the <codeph>webhelp.body.script</codeph> parameter instead.</note></li>
          <li>Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> to save the changes and run the transformation
            scenario.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="using_a_script_outside_of_oxygen_xml_editorauthor">
      <title>Using a Script Outside of Oxygen XML Editor/Author</title>
      <note conkeyref="reusables-transforming-documents/note-command-line"
        product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"/>
      <p>To include custom HTML content in the WebHelp Classic output using a <xref
          href="using-the-webhelp-plugin.dita#using-the-webhelp-plugin">script outside of <b>Oxygen
            XML Editor/Author</b></xref>, follow this procedure:<ol>
          <li>Insert the HTML content in a well-formed XML file considering the following notes:<ul>
              <li conkeyref="reusables-transforming-documents/li-1"/>
              <li conkeyref="reusables-transforming-documents/li-2"/>
              <li conkeyref="reusables-transforming-documents/li-3"/>
            </ul></li>
          <li>Use the <codeph>webhelp.head.script</codeph> parameter in your transformation script
            and set its value to reference the URL of the XML file created in step 1. Your
            additional content will be included at the end of the <codeph>head</codeph> element of
            your output document.<note>If you want to include the content in the
                <codeph>body</codeph> element, use the <codeph>webhelp.body.script</codeph>
              parameter instead.</note></li>
          <li>Execute the transformation script.</li>
        </ol></p>
      <p>For example, a DITA script might look like this::<ul>
          <li><b>Windows:</b><p><codeph>dita.bat -i c:\mySample.ditamap -f webhelp
                -Dwebhelp.head.script=c:\myFile.xml</codeph></p></li>
          <li><b>Mac OS X/ Linux:</b><p><codeph>dita -i C:/mySample.ditamap -f webhelp
                -Dwebhelp.head.script=C:/myFile.xml</codeph></p></li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="copy_resources.dita#copy_resources"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
