<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="wh-edit-link">
  <title>How to Add an Edit Link to Launch Oxygen XML Web Author</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">WebHelp Responsive<indexterm>Edit link to launch Web Author</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm product="webhelp-responsive ope">Edit link to launch Web Author</indexterm>
      </keywords>
      <keywords>
        <keyword outputclass="label" product="webhelp-responsive">Publishing Template</keyword>
        <keyword outputclass="label" product="webhelp-responsive">Transformation
          Parameters</keyword>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_sp4_cgk_54b">You can embed <i>Edit</i> links in the DITA WebHelp Responsive output that will automatically
      launch a particular document in <xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-webauthor/" format="html" scope="external"><ph keyref="webappProduct"/></xref>. A reviewer can then
      click the link to open the particular file in <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> where they can make
      or propose changes.</p>
    <section id="using_a_script_outside_of_oxygen_xml_editorauthor">
      <title>Using a Publishing Template</title>
      <p id="p_tp4_cgk_54b">To embed an <i>Edit</i> link in the DITA Map WebHelp Responsive output using an <xref keyref="wh-publishing-template"><term>Oxygen Publishing Template</term></xref>, follow
        this procedure:<ol id="ol_up4_cgk_54b">
          <li id="li_vp4_cgk_54b">If you have not already created a Publishing Template, see <xref href="whr_publishing_templates.dita"/>.</li>
          <li id="li_wp4_cgk_54b">Open the <xref href="whr_publishing_template_contents.dita#template_descritpor_file">template descriptor file</xref> associated with your publishing template and add the
            following parameters with their values set to the URLs:<ul id="ul_xp4_cgk_54b">
              <li id="li_yp4_cgk_54b"><uicontrol>editlink.ditamap.edit.url</uicontrol> - The URL of
                the DITA map used to publish your content. The easiest way to obtain the URL is to
                open the map in Web Author or Content Fusion and copy the URL from the browser's
                address bar.</li>
              <li id="li_zp4_cgk_54b"><uicontrol>editlink.additional.query.parameters</uicontrol> -
                Optional query parameters to be appended to each generated edit link. Each parameter
                must start with <i>&amp;</i> (e.g. <i>&amp;tags-mode=no-tags</i>). </li>
            </ul><codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_aq4_cgk_54b">&lt;publishing-template>
    ...
    &lt;webhelp>
        ...                
        &lt;parameters>
            &lt;parameter name="editlink.ditamap.edit.url" 
                       value="webdav-https://dav.box.com/dav/my.ditamap"/>
        &lt;/parameters>
    &lt;/webhelp></codeblock></li>
          <li id="li_bq4_cgk_54b">Open the <term>DITA Map WebHelp Responsive</term> transformation scenario.</li>
          <li id="li_cq4_cgk_54b">Click the <uicontrol>Choose Custom Publishing Template</uicontrol> link and select
            your template.</li>
          <li id="li_dq4_cgk_54b">Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> to save the changes to the transformation
            scenario.</li>
          <li id="li_eq4_cgk_54b">Run the transformation scenario.</li>
        </ol></p>
      <p id="p_fq4_cgk_54b"><b>Result:</b> In the WebHelp output, all topics will have an <uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol>
        link to the right side of the title and clicking the link will launch that particular
        document in <ph keyref="webappProduct"/>.</p>
      <p id="p_gq4_cgk_54b">For example:<ul id="ul_hq4_cgk_54b" outputclass="wh-tabbed">
          <li id="li_iq4_cgk_54b"><ph>Windows</ph><codeph>dita.bat -i c:\mySample.ditamap -f
              webhelp-responsive
              -Deditlink.ditamap.edit.url=webdav-https://dav.box.com/dav/my.ditamap</codeph>
          </li>
          <li id="li_lq4_cgk_54b"><ph>macOS/ Linux</ph><codeph>dita -i /mySample.ditamap -f
              webhelp-responsive
              -Deditlink.ditamap.edit.url=webdav-https://dav.box.com/dav/my.ditamap</codeph>
          </li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section id="using_oxygen_xml_editorauthor">
      <title>Using a Transformation Scenario in Oxygen XML Editor/Author</title>
      <p id="p_oq4_cgk_54b">To embed an <i>Edit</i> link in the DITA Map WebHelp Responsive output using a
        transformation scenario from within <b>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</b>, follow this procedure:<ol id="ol_pq4_cgk_54b">
          <li id="li_qq4_cgk_54b">Edit a <uicontrol>DITA Map WebHelp Responsive</uicontrol> transformation scenario and
            open the <uicontrol>Parameters</uicontrol> tab.</li>
          <li id="li_rq4_cgk_54b">Set values for the following parameters:<ul id="ul_sq4_cgk_54b">
              <li id="li_tq4_cgk_54b"><uicontrol>editlink.ditamap.edit.url</uicontrol> - The URL of
                the <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> that have opened the DITA map for editing.</li>
              <li id="li_uq4_cgk_54b"><uicontrol>editlink.additional.query.parameters</uicontrol> -
                Optional query parameters to be appended to each generated edit link. Must start
                with <i>&amp;</i> (e.g.: <i>&amp;tags-mode=no-tags</i>). </li>
            </ul></li>
          <li id="li_vq4_cgk_54b">Run the transformation scenario.</li>
        </ol></p>
      <p id="p_wq4_cgk_54b"><b>Result:</b> In the WebHelp output, all topics will have an <uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol>
        link to the right side of the title and clicking the link will launch that particular
        document in <ph keyref="webappProduct"/>.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
      <link format="html" href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-waCustom/topics/webauthor-integrate-embedded-launch.html" scope="external">
        <linktext>Web Author Customization Guide: Embedding an Edit Link that will Launch Web
          Author</linktext>
      </link>
  </related-links>
</topic>
