<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="wh-faceted-search">
  <title>How to Configure Faceted Search in WebHelp Output</title>
    
  <body>
    
    <p>A <term>faceted search</term> is a powerful tool that allows users to refine search results
      by selecting filters or facets. <term>Facets</term> are predefined categories that are
      associated with search results. By selecting one or more facets, users can narrow down their
      search results to a specific category or set of categories.</p>
    <section id="section_rj3_v22_ryb">
      <title>Configure Oxygen Feedback as an External Search Engine</title>
      <p id="p_scq_w22_ryb">To enable faceted searches, you need to have a search engine that
        supports this functionality. The <b>Oxygen Feedback</b> search engine implements faceted
        searches and can be easily configured as a search engine for WebHelp.<note
          id="note_vqc_x22_ryb" type="attention">The default search engine that comes embedded in
          the WebHelp Responsive output does not support faceted searches.</note></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_mbz_cf2_ryb">
      <title>Defining Facets Using a DITA Subject Scheme Map</title>
      <p id="p_tbq_ff2_ryb"><xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/dita/1.3/specs/archSpec/base/subject-scheme-maps-and-usage.html"
          format="html" scope="external">Subject scheme maps</xref> can be used to define controlled
        values and subject definitions. <term>Subject definitions</term> are classifications and
        sub-classifications that compose a tree. Subject definitions provide semantics that can be
        used in conjunction with taxonomies and ontologies.</p>
      <p id="p_hsy_ff2_ryb">The <xmlelement>subjectdef</xmlelement> element is used to define both a
        subject category and a list of controlled values. The parent
          <xmlelement>subjectdef</xmlelement> element defines the category, and the children
          <xmlelement>subjectdef</xmlelement> elements define the controlled values.</p>
      <p id="p_xzh_gf2_ryb">The following example defines the "Operating system" category, with
        "Linux" and "Windows" sub-categories. The controlled values (facet values) are: "RedHat
        Linux", "SUSE Linux", "Windows 7", and "Windows
        10".<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;subjectScheme>
  &lt;subjectdef keys="os" navtitle="Operating system">
    &lt;subjectdef keys="linux" navtitle="Linux">
      &lt;subjectdef keys="redhat" navtitle="RedHat Linux"/>
      &lt;subjectdef keys="suse" navtitle="SUSE Linux"/>
    &lt;/subjectdef>
    &lt;subjectdef keys="windows" navtitle="Windows">
      &lt;subjectdef keys="win7" navtitle="Windows 7"/>
      &lt;subjectdef keys="win10" navtitle="Windows 10"/>
    &lt;/subjectdef>    
  &lt;/subjectdef>
&lt;/subjectScheme></codeblock></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_aqr_rf2_ryb">
      <title>Associating Faceted Values With a Topic Using a DITA Classification Map</title>
      <p id="p_lwg_tf2_ryb"><xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/dita/1.3/specs/archSpec/base/classification-maps.html"
          format="html" scope="external">The classification domain</xref> provides elements that
        enable map authors to indicate information about the subject matter of DITA topics. The
        subjects are defined in subject scheme maps, and the subjects are referenced using the
          <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> attribute.</p>
      <p id="p_ykp_tf2_ryb">The following example shows you how to associate a faceted value with a
        topic:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;!DOCTYPE map PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Classification Map//EN" "classifyMap.dtd">
&lt;map>
    &lt;title>Classification map&lt;/title>
    &lt;topicref keyref="how-to-install-on-suse.dita">
      &lt;topicsubject keyref="linux">
        &lt;subjectref keyref="suse"/>
      &lt;/topicsubject>
    &lt;/topicref>
  
    &lt;topicref keyref="how-to-install-win7.dita">
      &lt;topicsubject keyref="windows">
        &lt;subjectref keyref="win7"/>
      &lt;/topicsubject>
    &lt;/topicref>
&lt;/map></codeblock></p>
      <p id="p_mg4_5f2_ryb">
        <note>The facet information cascades into child <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>
          elements.</note>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_yzc_2g2_ryb">
      <title>Refining the Search Results by Using Facets in the Search Page</title>
      <p id="p_mms_gg2_ryb">The configured facets are displayed in the search page, allowing you to
        narrow down the results.</p>
      <p id="p_xls_hg2_ryb">When a user selects a facet, the search results are updated to only
        include the topics that match the selected facets. If multiple facet values are selected
        from the same category/facet, the search results display all topics with at least one facet.
        On the other hand, if multiple facet values from distinct facets are selected, the search
        results display all topics with all selected facet values.</p>
    </section>
   
  </body>
</topic>
