<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="wh-labels">
  <title>How to Add Searchable Labels in WebHelp Output</title>
  <body>
    <p>It is possible to add <i>searchable labels</i> in WebHelp Responsive output that can be
      clicked to search for topics with that exact same label. Labels are textual words attached to
      a DITA topic that enables it to be easily found using the search function. These labels can
      help you in organizing your topics, making it more accessible to retrieve topics for a
      specific text. </p>
    <section id="section_v3h_23v_fzb">
      <title>Configure Oxygen Feedback as an External Search Engine</title>
      <p>To enable <i>searchable labels</i>, you need to have a search engine that supports this
        functionality. The <b>Oxygen Feedback</b> search engine implements <i>searchable labels</i>
        and can be easily configured as a search engine for WebHelp, see <xref
          href="whr-feedback-system.dita"/> for more details.<note id="note_p5z_p3v_fzb"
          type="attention">The default search engine that comes embedded in the WebHelp Responsive
          output does not support searchable labels. It will simply perform a standard search using
          the content within the label.</note></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_as2_xjv_fzb">
      <title>How to Add Searchable Labels in a DITA Topic</title>
      <p>The generation of <i>searchable labels</i> in the WebHelp Responsive output is activated by
        default. You need to insert the desired text (to be displayed in the label in the output) in
        a <xmlelement>keyword</xmlelement> element with an <xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt> attribute
        set to <b>label</b> within the prolog of each topic that you want to have that label
        displayed in the output.<note id="note_jw3_kkv_fzb">You can right-click anywhere within the
          topic in <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode and select <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Insert</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Insert Label</uicontrol>
          </menucascade> to quickly insert the needed structure in the prolog.</note></p>
      <p>For example:
        <codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_sqq_lkv_fzb">&lt;prolog>
      &lt;metadata>
          &lt;keywords>
              &lt;keyword outputclass="label">Customization&lt;/keyword>
          &lt;/keywords>
      &lt;/metadata>
  &lt;/prolog></codeblock></p>
      <p>This would add a label that contains the text "Customization" in the output for the
        particular topic. If the user clicks that label, the search engine will search for all
        topics that have this same label defined.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_bqg_wkv_fzb">
      <title>Transformation Parameters for Generating Searchable Labels</title>
      <p>You can have more control over how the labels are generated in the WebHelp Responsive
        output by using the <b>webhelp.labels.generation.mode</b> transformation parameter. The
        possible values for this parameter are: <ul
          id="webhelp-responsive-plugin-additional-parameters_ul_mhm_w1h_bzb">
          <li id="webhelp-responsive-plugin-additional-parameters_li_nhm_w1h_bzb"
              ><b>keywords-label</b> - Generates labels for each defined
              <codeph>&lt;keyword></codeph> element that has the <codeph>@outputclass</codeph>
            attribute value set to <b>label</b>.</li>
          <li id="webhelp-responsive-plugin-additional-parameters_li_okv_kbh_bzb"><b>keywords</b> -
            Generates labels for each defined <codeph>&lt;keyword></codeph> element. If the topic
            contains <codeph>&lt;keyword></codeph> elements with the <codeph>@outputclass</codeph>
            attribute value set to <b>label</b>, then only these elements will have labels generated
            for them in the output.</li>
          <li id="webhelp-responsive-plugin-additional-parameters_li_zvf_4bh_bzb"><b>disable</b> -
            Disables the generation of labels in the WebHelp Responsive output.</li>
        </ul><note id="note_xd5_tlv_fzb">The default value for the
            <b>webhelp.labels.generation.mode</b> transformation parameter is
          <b>keywords-label</b></note></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_epq_xmv_fzb">
      <title>Searchable Labels in WebHelp Responsive Output</title>
      <p>The WebHelp Responsive transformation will generate a component that will render the text
        value of the <xmlelement>keyword</xmlelement> element. When the user clicks that component,
        they will be redirected to the search page with the search query populated for them and the
        search engine will display all topics that have that same text value defined in the
        prolog.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
