<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="wh_getting_started">
  <title><?oxy_comment_start author="Steven" timestamp="20180222T163600+0200" comment="WH-1743   Review this whole section"?>Getting
    Started<?oxy_comment_end?></title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Introduction</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Getting started</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><b>WebHelp</b> is a form of online help that consists of a series of web pages (XHTML
      format). Its advantages include platform independence, ability to update content continuously,
      and it can be viewed using a regular web browser.</p>
    <p product="webhelp">The <b>WebHelp Classic</b> system is designed for desktop systems and it
      features a familiar <i>tri-pane</i> layout. You can use the system to publish DITA and DocBook
      documents and it also includes a WebHelp Skin Builder that provides a simple online tool to
      help you visually customize the look and feel of your WebHelp output.</p>
    <p product="webhelp-responsive">The <b>WebHelp Responsive</b> variant features a very flexible
      layout and is designed to adapt to any device and screen size to provide an optimal viewing
      and interaction experience. It is based upon the <i>Bootstrap</i> responsive front-end
      framework and is available for DITA document types.</p>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> is a standalone product that requires its own license key. It provides
      support for transforming DITA<ph product="webhelp"> or DocBook</ph> resources into WebHelp
      output by running a transformation script outside of <b>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</b>. This is
      especially useful if you want to automate the output process.</p>
    <section id="d257e55">
      <title>Browser Compatibility</title>      
      <p conkeyref="reusables-transforming-documents/webhelp_compatible_browsers"/>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
