<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="what-is-oxygen">
  <title>What is <ph keyref="product"/></title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_zll_bgk_54b"
      product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"><ph
        keyref="product"/> is the best XML editor available and is a complete XML development and
      authoring solution. It is designed to accommodate a large number of users, ranging from
      beginners to XML experts. It is the only XML tool that supports all of the XML schema
      languages and provides a large variety of powerful tools for editing and publishing XML
      documents.</p>
    <p id="p_aml_bgk_54b"
      product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">You can use <ph
        keyref="product"/> to work with most XML-based standards and technologies. It is a
      cross-platform application available on all the major operating systems (Windows, macOS,
      Linux, Solaris) and can be used either as a standalone application or as an Eclipse
      plugin.</p>
    <p product="json"><ph keyref="product"/> is a specialized tool designed for editing JSON
      documents. It offers a wide range of features and views, including Text, Grid, and Author
      editing modes, along with Design mode for JSON Schema. The intuitive interface and
      comprehensive set of tools make it easy to navigate, understand, and modify your JSON, JSON
      Schema files, as well as YAML and OpenAPI files. It also supports other technologies,
      including HTML, CSS, LESS, Python, JavaScript, AsyncAPI, Shell, SQL, and more. You can even
      edit XML files in <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode.</p>
    <p product="json">With powerful validation assistance, you can ensure that your JSON and YAML
      documents are well-formed and accurately validated against custom JSON Schema. Additionally,
        <ph keyref="product"/> provides convenient conversion tools to transform XML structures or
      YAML instances into valid JSON data, and vice versa.</p>
    <p id="p_bml_bgk_54b">For a list of many of the features and technologies that are included in
        <ph keyref="product"/>, see the <xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/#features"
        format="html" scope="external"
        product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">Oxygen
        Website</xref><xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/oxygen_json_editor.html" format="html"
        scope="external" product="json">Oxygen JSON Editor website</xref>.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
