<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="whr-process-overview">
  <title>Overview of WebHelp DITA-OT Processing Stages </title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Processing Stages</navtitle>
  </titlealts>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>DITA-OT process stages</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_a1w_dgk_54b">The WebHelp Responsive plugin inherits the multi-stage processing mode from the <xref
        keyref="glossentry-dita-ot"><term>DITA-OT</term></xref> publishing engine. Each stage in the
      process examines some or all of the content. Some stages result in temporary files that are
      used in later steps, while other stages result in updated copies of the DITA content. Most of
      the processing takes place in a temporary working directory, and the source files themselves
      are never modified.</p>
    <p id="p_b1w_dgk_54b">The most important steps (<i>Ant</i> targets) in the WebHelp Responsive transformation
      process are:</p>
    <p id="p_c1w_dgk_54b">
      <dl id="dl_d1w_dgk_54b">
        <dlentry id="dlentry_e1w_dgk_54b">
          <dt>whr-init</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_f1w_dgk_54b">Creates a set of initializations required by the next processing
              steps such as: initialize the plugin Java CLASSPATH, load the <abbreviated-form
                keyref="glossentry-wh-publishing-template"/>, or set the default values for various
              properties.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_g1w_dgk_54b">
          <dt>preprocess</dt>
          <dd>This is a <xref keyref="dot-preprocess-step">step</xref> defined in the
              <abbreviated-form keyref="glossentry-dita-ot"/> processor representing a set of
            sub-steps that typically runs at the beginning of every <abbreviated-form
              keyref="glossentry-dita-ot"/> transformation. Each step or stage corresponds to an Ant
            target in the build pipeline; the <codeph>preprocess</codeph> target calls the entire
            set of steps.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_h1w_dgk_54b">
          <dt>whr-detect-lang</dt>
          <dd>Detects the documentation language by looking into the DITA map file. If not detected,
            it uses the value of the <codeph>default.language</codeph> parameter.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_i1w_dgk_54b">
          <dt>whr-collect-indexterms</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_j1w_dgk_54b">Collects the index terms from DITA topics and write them in
                  <filepath><abbreviated-form keyref="glossentry-wh-out-dir"/>/index.xml</filepath>.
              The <filepath>index.xml</filepath> file is used later by the
                <term>whr-create-indexterms-page</term> step to generate the <xref
                href="html_page_templates.dita#html_page_templates/index-terms-page">index terms
                HTML page</xref> (<filepath><abbreviated-form keyref="glossentry-wh-out-dir"
                />/indexTerms.html)</filepath>.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_k1w_dgk_54b">
          <dt>whr-create-props-file</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_l1w_dgk_54b">Serializes the transformation parameters in XML and JS formats so they can be used in
              the next XSLT processing steps or JavaScript.</p>
            <p id="p_m1w_dgk_54b">You can read the value of a WebHelp transformation parameter from your XSLT extension
              stylesheets by using the <codeph>getParameter(param.name)</codeph> function from the
                <codeph>http://www.oxygenxml.com/functions</codeph> namespace. </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_n1w_dgk_54b">
          <dt>whr-toc-xml</dt>
          <dd>Generates the <codeph>toc.xml</codeph> file in the temporary directory.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_o1w_dgk_54b">
          <dt>whr-nav-links</dt>
          <dd>Generates the navigational links for all DITA topics such as menu, table of contents,
            or breadcrumb links.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_p1w_dgk_54b">
          <dt>whr-context-help-map</dt>
          <dd>Generates the <codeph>context-help-map.xml</codeph> file in the output folder. This
            file is used by the <xref href="whr-context-sensitive.dita#whr-context-sensitive"
              >Context-Sensitive WebHelp Responsive system</xref>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>whr-sitemap</dt>
          <dd>Generates the <codeph>sitemap.xml</codeph> file in the output folder. This file is
            used for <xref href="webhelp-seo.dita">Search Engine Optimization</xref>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>whr-copy-resources</dt>
          <dd>Copies all the resources (logo, favicon, JavaScript files, CSS files, etc.) that are
            needed by the WebHelp transformation to the output folder. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_q1w_dgk_54b">
          <dt>whr-create-topic-pages</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_r1w_dgk_54b">Generates an HTML file for each DITA topic.</p>
            <p id="p_s1w_dgk_54b">Implementation is done by running an XSLT transformation that
              processes the <xref href="html_page_templates.dita#html_page_templates/topic-page"
                >topic layout page</xref> with <filepath><abbreviated-form
                  keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"
                />/plugins/com.oxygenxml.webhelp.responsive/templates/xsl/dita2webhelp/dita2webhelp.xsl</filepath>
              XSLT file for all DITA topics. You can extend this step by using the <codeph><xref
                  keyref="whr-xslt-extension-points/xsl-dita2webhelp"
                  >com.oxygenxml.webhelp.xsl.dita2webhelp</xref></codeph> extension point.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_t1w_dgk_54b">
          <dt>whr-create-main-page</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_u1w_dgk_54b">Generates the <xref
                href="html_page_templates.dita#html_page_templates/main-page">WebHelp main
                page</xref> (<filepath>index.html</filepath>) in the output folder.</p>
            <p id="p_v1w_dgk_54b">Implementation is done by running an XSLT transformation that
              processes the <xref href="html_page_templates.dita#html_page_templates/main-page">main
                layout page</xref> with the <filepath><abbreviated-form
                  keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"
                />/plugins/com.oxygenxml.webhelp.responsive/templates/xsl/mainFiles/createMainPage.xsl</filepath>
              XSLT file. You can extend this step by using the <codeph><xref
                  keyref="whr-xslt-extension-points/xsl-creatMainPage"
                  >com.oxygenxml.webhelp.xsl.createMainPage</xref></codeph> extension point.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_w1w_dgk_54b">
          <dt>whr-create-search-page</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_x1w_dgk_54b">Generates the <xref
                href="html_page_templates.dita#html_page_templates/search-results-page">WebHelp
                search results page</xref> (search<codeph>.html</codeph>) in the output folder.</p>
            <p id="p_y1w_dgk_54b">Implementation is done by running an XSLT transformation that
              processes the <xref
                href="html_page_templates.dita#html_page_templates/search-results-page">search
                results page</xref> with <filepath><abbreviated-form keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"
                />/plugins/com.oxygenxml.webhelp.responsive/templates/xsl/mainFiles/createSearchPage.xsl</filepath>
              XSLT file. You can extend this step by using the <codeph><xref
                  keyref="whr-xslt-extension-points/xsl-createSearchPage"
                  >com.oxygenxml.webhelp.xsl.createSearchPage</xref></codeph> extension point.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_z1w_dgk_54b">
          <dt>whr-create-indexterms-page</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_abw_dgk_54b">Generates the <xref
                href="html_page_templates.dita#html_page_templates/index-terms-page">WebHelp index
                terms HTML page</xref> (<codeph>indexTerms.html</codeph>) in the output folder.</p>
            <p id="p_bbw_dgk_54b">Implementation is done by running an XSLT transformation that transforms the
                  <filepath><abbreviated-form keyref="glossentry-wh-out-dir"/>/index.xml</filepath>
              generated by the <codeph>whr-collect-indexterms</codeph> step with
                  <filepath><abbreviated-form keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"
                />/plugins/com.oxygenxml.webhelp.responsive/templates/xsl/mainFiles/createIndextermsPage.xsl</filepath>
              XSLT file. You can extend this step by using the <codeph><xref
                  keyref="whr-xslt-extension-points/xsl-createIndextermsPage"
                  >com.oxygenxml.webhelp.xsl.createIndexTermsPage</xref></codeph> extension
              point.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_cbw_dgk_54b">
          <dt>whr-search-index</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_dbw_dgk_54b">Processes the generated HTML (for all DITA topics) to generate an index file. This
              index is used to implement the WebHelp search function.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
    <p id="p_ebw_dgk_54b">
      <note id="note_fbw_dgk_54b">The WebHelp Responsive plugin uses the XSLT stylesheets from the
          <abbreviated-form keyref="glossentry-dita-ot"/> HTML5 plugin.</note>
    </p>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link keyref="dot-preprocess-step"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
