<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="whr-custom-css-param-oxy">
    <title>Referring the CSS from the args.css Transformation Scenario Parameter</title>
  <taskbody>        
    <context><p>As a practical example, the following procedure can be used to change the background
      color of the footer bar in the WebHelp output of the <b>Oxygen XML Editor</b> User
      Guide.</p></context>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Use the browser's CSS inspector to identify the current CSS code that styles the footer
          bar. In this particular case, the pertinent code that would be identified is: </cmd>
        <info><codeblock outputclass="language-css">.wh_footer {
  font-size: 15px;
  line-height: 1.7em;
  background-color: #000;
}</codeblock></info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>If you want to test the color you want to apply as the background of this particular
          element, use the browser's CSS inspector to change the value of the
          <codeph>background-color</codeph> attribute. After you find a suitable color, copy that
          new code.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Create a custom CSS file and paste or enter the copied code. For example:</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-css">.wh_footer {
  background-color: #255890;
}</codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Save the custom CSS file at a location of your convenience.</cmd>
        <stepresult>You should have a new CSS file, <filepath>wh_footer.css</filepath> on your
          disk</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Set the <codeph>args.css</codeph> parameter to the path of your custom CSS file.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Also, set the <codeph>args.copycss</codeph> parameter to <codeph>yes</codeph> to
          automatically copy your custom CSS in the output folder when the transformation scenario
          is processed.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Run the transformation <ph
            product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
            >scenario</ph><ph product="webhelp webhelp-responsive">script</ph>.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>
    <result id="result_bjx_ndm_wcb">
      <p>Your custom CSS snippet will be applied as a final layer on top of any existing CSS rules
        and the output will reflect the changes you made.</p>
    </result>
  </taskbody>
</task>
