<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="whr-custom-css-pt-oxy">
  <title>Referring the CSS from a Publishing Template</title>
  <taskbody>
    <context>
      <note type="fastpath">
        <p>You can specify an additional CSS in a <term keyref="glossentry-wh-publishing-template"
          />. </p>
        <p>Open the associated <xref keyref="whr-template-descriptor">publishing template
            descriptor</xref> and specify the CSS in the <xref keyref="whr-template-resources"
              ><term>resources</term></xref> section. </p>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;publishing-template>
    ...
    &lt;webhelp>
        ...                
        &lt;resources>            
            ...          
            &lt;css file="resources/wh_footer.css"/></codeblock>
      </note>          
        <p>As a practical example, the following procedure can be used to change the background
        color of the footer bar in the WebHelp output of the <b>Oxygen XML Editor</b> User
        Guide.</p></context>
    <steps id="steps_zgt_vhz_wcb">
      <step>
        <cmd>Use the browser's CSS inspector to identify the current CSS code that styles the footer
          bar. In this particular case, the pertinent code that would be identified is: </cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-css">.wh_footer {
  font-size: 15px;
  line-height: 1.7em;
  background-color: #000;
}</codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>If you want to test the color you want to apply as the background of this particular
          element, use the browser's CSS inspector to change the value of the
            <codeph>background-color</codeph> attribute. After you find a suitable color, copy that
          new code.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Create a custom CSS file and paste or enter the copied code. For example:</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-css">.wh_footer {
  background-color: #255890;
}</codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Save the custom CSS file at a location of your convenience.</cmd>
        <stepresult>You should have a new CSS file, <filepath>wh_footer.css</filepath> on your
          disk</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd importance="optional">Create a new <xref keyref="whr-create-publishing-template"
            >publishing template</xref>. Skip this step you have already one.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Open the <xref keyref="whr-template-descriptor">template descriptor</xref> associated
          with your publishing template. If you are not familiar with <abbreviated-form
            keyref="glossentry-wh-publishing-template"/> concept, you can follow the <xref
            keyref="whr_edit-publishing-template">edit a publishing template</xref> procedure.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Using the project view, copy your custom CSS in a inner folder within publishing
          template root folder, in the <filepath>custom_footer_template/resources</filepath> folder
          for instance. </cmd>
        <stepresult>You should have the
            <filepath>custom_footer_template/resources/wh_footer.css</filepath> file in your
          publishing package root folder.</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Open the publishing template descriptor in editor to edit. You will benefit by the
          content completion and validation support.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Add the new CSS in the descriptor <term>resources</term> section. This will instruct
          the transformation to link the <filepath>wh_footer.css</filepath> in all generated HTML
          files.</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;publishing-template>
    ...
    &lt;webhelp>
        ...                
        &lt;resources>            
            ...          
            &lt;css file="resources/wh_footer.css"/></codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Open the <term>DITA Map WebHelp Responsive</term> transformation scenario.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Use the
            <uicontrol><?oxy_comment_start author="radu_pisoi" timestamp="20180214T215723+0200" comment="Link to action"?>Choose
            Custom Publishing Template<?oxy_comment_end?></uicontrol> and select your newly created
          template.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> to save the changes to the transformation
          scenario.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Run the transformation scenario.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>    
  </taskbody>
</task>
