<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="whr-create-custom-css">
    <title>Create the Custom CSS</title>
    <taskbody>
    <context id="context_jmb_hrk_ycb">
      <p>As a practical example, the following procedure can be used to change the background color
        of the footer bar in the WebHelp output of the <b>Oxygen XML Editor</b> User Guide.</p>
    </context>
        <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Use the browser's CSS inspector to identify the current CSS code that styles the footer
          bar. In this particular case, the pertinent code that would be identified is: </cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-css">.wh_footer {
  font-size: 15px;
  line-height: 1.7em;
  background-color: #000;
}</codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>If you want to test the color you want to apply as the background of this particular
          element, use the browser's CSS inspector to change the value of the
            <codeph>background-color</codeph> attribute. After you find a suitable color, copy that
          new code.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Create a custom CSS file and paste or enter the copied code. For example:</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-css">.wh_footer {
  background-color: #255890;
}</codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Save the custom CSS file at a location of your convenience.</cmd>
        
      </step>
        </steps>
    <result id="result_jj5_5wk_ycb">
      <p>You should have a new CSS file, <filepath>wh_footer.css</filepath> on your disk.</p>
    </result>
    <postreq id="postreq_ngd_3xk_ycb">
      <p>The customization CSS file can be referenced from the <term>WebHelp Responsive</term>
        transformation either from a <abbreviated-form keyref="glossentry-wh-publishing-template"/>
        or using the <codeph>args.css</codeph> parameter.</p>
    </postreq>
    </taskbody>
</task>
