<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="whr-custom-css-pt-edit">
    <title>Edit the Publishing Template to add the CSS file</title>    
    <taskbody>
      <steps>
      <step importance="optional">
        <cmd>Unzip the ZIP archive associated with the WebHelp Publishing Template in a separate
          folder. Skip this step if your publishing template is already stored in a folder.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Link the folder associated with the <term>publishing Template</term> in the
            <uicontrol>Project</uicontrol> view.</cmd>
        <stepresult>You should have the template root folder linked in your project,
            <filepath>custom_footer_template</filepath> for instance.</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Using the project view, copy your custom CSS in a inner folder within publishing
          template root folder, in the <filepath>custom_footer_template/resources</filepath> folder
          for instance. </cmd>
        <stepresult>You should have the
            <filepath>custom_footer_template/resources/wh_footer.css</filepath> file in your
          publishing package root folder.</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Open the publishing template descriptor in editor to edit. You will benefit by the
          content completion and validation support.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Add the new CSS in the descriptor <term>resources</term> section. This will instruct
          the transformation to link the <filepath>wh_footer.css</filepath> in all generated HTML
          files.</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;publishing-template>
    ...
    &lt;webhelp>
        ...                
        &lt;resources>            
            ...          
            &lt;css file="resources/wh_footer.css"/></codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step importance="optional">
        <cmd>You can archive the folder as ZIP to be easier to store or share with others. It is
          optional because a publishing template can be also stored in a folder.</cmd>
      </step>  </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
