<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="whr-context-sensitive">
  <title>Context-Sensitive Help System</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
          >WebHelp Responsive<indexterm>Context-sensitive help</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm product="webhelp-responsive ope">Context-sensitive help</indexterm>
      </keywords>
      <keywords>
        <keyword outputclass="label" product="webhelp-responsive">DITA-OT</keyword>
        <keyword outputclass="label" product="webhelp-responsive">Transformation
          Parameters</keyword>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_wlm_cgk_54b">Context-sensitive help systems assist users by providing specific informational topics for
      certain components of a user interface, such as a button or window. This mechanism works based
      on mappings between a unique ID defined in the topic and a corresponding HTML page.</p>
    <section id="generating_contextsensitive_help">
      <title>Generating Context-Sensitive Help</title>
      <p id="p_xlm_cgk_54b">When WebHelp Responsive output is generated, the transformation process
        produces an XML mapping file called <filepath>context-help-map.xml</filepath> and copies it
        to the output folder of the transformation. This XML file maps an ID to a corresponding HTML
        page through an <xmlelement>appContext</xmlelement> element, as in the following
        example:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_ylm_cgk_54b">&lt;map productID="oxy-webhelp" productVersion="1.1"&gt;
  &lt;appContext helpID="myapp-functionid1" path="tasks/app-help1.html"/&gt;
  &lt;appContext helpID="myapp-functionid2" path="tasks/app-help1.html"/&gt;
    .  .  .
&lt;/map&gt;</codeblock></p>
      <p id="p_zlm_cgk_54b">The possible attributes are as follows:</p>
      <p id="p_amm_cgk_54b">
        <dl id="dl_bmm_cgk_54b">
          <dlentry id="dlentry_cmm_cgk_54b">
            <dt><uicontrol>helpID</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>
              <p id="p_dmm_cgk_54b">A Unique ID provided by a topic from two possible sources
                  (<xmlelement>resourceid</xmlelement> element or <xmlatt>id</xmlatt>
                attribute):</p>
              <p id="p_emm_cgk_54b">
                <dl id="dl_fmm_cgk_54b">
                  <dlentry id="dlentry_gmm_cgk_54b">
                    <dt><uicontrol>resourceid</uicontrol></dt>
                    <dd>
                      <p id="p_hmm_cgk_54b">The <xmlelement>resourceid</xmlelement> element is mapped into the
                          <xmlelement>appContext</xmlelement> element and can be specified in either
                        the <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> within a <term>DITA map</term> or in a
                          <xmlelement>prolog</xmlelement> within a DITA topic. The
                          <xmlelement>resourceid</xmlelement> element accepts the following
                          attributes:<ul id="ul_kxl_kfd_y3b">
                          <li id="appname"><uicontrol>appname</uicontrol> - A name for the external
                            application that references the topic. If this attribute is not
                            specified, its value is considered to be empty
                            (<codeph>""</codeph>).</li>
                          <li id="li_imm_cgk_54b"><uicontrol>appid</uicontrol> - An ID used by an
                            application to identify the topic.</li>
                          <li id="li_jmm_cgk_54b"><uicontrol>id</uicontrol> - Specifies a value that
                            is used by a specific application to identify the topic, but this
                            attribute is ignored if an <uicontrol><xmlatt>appid</xmlatt></uicontrol>
                            attribute is used.</li>
                        </ul><note id="note_kmm_cgk_54b">Multiple <xmlatt>appid</xmlatt> values can be associated with a
                          single <codeph>appname</codeph> value (and multiple
                            <xmlatt>appname</xmlatt> values can be associated with a single
                            <xmlatt>appid</xmlatt> value), but the values for both attributes work
                          in combination to specify a specific ID for a specific application, and
                          therefore each combination of values for the <xmlatt>appid</xmlatt> and
                            <xmlatt>appname</xmlatt> attributes should be unique within the context
                          of a single <xref keyref="glossentry_root-map"><term>root
                            map</term></xref>. For example, suppose that you need two different
                          functions of an application to both open the same WebHelp page.</note></p>
                      <p id="p_lmm_cgk_54b"><u><b>Example: The <xmlelement>resourceid</xmlelement>
                            Element Specified in a DITA Map</b></u></p>
                      <p id="p_mmm_cgk_54b">The <xmlelement>resourceid</xmlelement> element can be specified in a
                          <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> element within a
                          <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>.<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_nmm_cgk_54b">&lt;map title="App Help">
  &lt;topicref href="app-help1.dita" type="task">
     &lt;topicmeta>
       &lt;resourceid appname="myapp" appid="functionid1"/>
       &lt;resourceid appname="myapp" appid="functionid2"/>
     &lt;/topicmeta>
  &lt;/topicref>
&lt;/map></codeblock></p>
                      <p id="p_omm_cgk_54b"><u><b>Example: The <xmlelement>resourceid</xmlelement>
                            Element Specified in a DITA Topic</b></u></p>
                      <p id="p_pmm_cgk_54b">The <xmlelement>resourceid</xmlelement> element can be specified in a
                          <xmlelement>prolog</xmlelement> element within a DITA
                        topic.<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_qmm_cgk_54b">&lt;task id="app-help1">
  &lt;title>My App Help&lt;/title>
  &lt;prolog>
    &lt;resourceid appname="myapp" appid="functionid1"/>
    &lt;resourceid appname="myapp" appid="functionid2"/>
  &lt;/prolog>
...
&lt;/task></codeblock></p>
                      <p id="p_rmm_cgk_54b">For more information about the <xmlelement>resourceid</xmlelement> element,
                        see <xref
                          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/dita/1.3/specs/langRef/base/resourceid.html#resourceid__attributes"
                          format="html" scope="external">DITA Specifications:
                        &lt;resourceid></xref>.</p>
                    </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry id="dlentry_smm_cgk_54b">
                    <dt><uicontrol>id</uicontrol></dt>
                    <dd>If a <xmlelement>resourceid</xmlelement> element is not declared in the
                        <term>DITA map</term> or DITA topic (as described above), the
                        <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute that is set on the topic root element is
                      mapped into the <xmlelement>appContext</xmlelement> element.</dd>
                    <dd>
                      <note type="important" id="note_tmm_cgk_54b">You should ensure that these defined IDs are unique in
                        the context of the entire DITA project. If the IDs are not unique, the
                        transformation scenario will display warning messages in the transformation
                        console output and the help system will not work properly.</note>
                    </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                </dl>
              </p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_umm_cgk_54b">
            <dt><uicontrol>path</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>The path to a corresponding WebHelp page. This path is relative to the location of
              the <filepath>context-help-map.xml</filepath> mapping file.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
      <p id="p_vmm_cgk_54b">There are two ways of implementing context-sensitive help in your system:<ul
          id="ul_erx_glz_cr">
          <li id="li_wmm_cgk_54b">The XML mapping file can be loaded by a PHP script on the server side. The script
            receives the <codeph>contextId</codeph> value and will look it up in the XML file.</li>
          <li id="li_xmm_cgk_54b">Invoke the <filepath>cshelp.html</filepath> WebHelp system file
            and pass the <codeph>contextId</codeph> parameter with a specific value. The WebHelp
            system will automatically open the help page associated with the value of the
              <codeph>contextId</codeph>
              parameter.<codeblock outputclass="language-ini" id="codeblock_ymm_cgk_54b">cshelp.html?contextId=myDITATopic</codeblock><note
              type="note" id="note_zmm_cgk_54b">The <codeph>contextId</codeph> parameter is not
              case-sensitive.</note><note id="note_el2_c5s_rsb" type="attention">Prior to version
              24.1, the method was to invoke the <filepath>index.html</filepath> file. The system
              still works using this method but it has been deprecated and its functionality will be
              removed in a future version.</note></li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section id="contextsensitive_queries">
      <title>Context-Sensitive Queries</title>
      <p id="p_anm_cgk_54b">You can use the URL field in your browser to search for topics in a context-sensitive
        WebHelp system with the assistance of the following parameters:</p>
      <p id="p_bnm_cgk_54b">
        <dl id="dl_cnm_cgk_54b">
          <dlentry id="dlentry_dnm_cgk_54b">
            <dt><uicontrol>contextId</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>The WebHelp JavaScript engine will look for this value in the
                <filepath>context-help-map.xml</filepath> mapping file and load the corresponding
              help page.<note id="note_enm_cgk_54b">You can use an <xref keyref="glossentry_anchor"
                  ><term>anchor</term></xref> in the <codeph>contextId</codeph> parameter to jump to
                a specific section in a document. For example,
                  <codeph>contextId=topicID#anchor</codeph>.</note></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry
            product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse webhelp-responsive ope" id="dlentry_fnm_cgk_54b">
            <dt><uicontrol>appname</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>You can use this parameter in conjunction with <codeph>contextId</codeph> to search
              for this value in the corresponding <i>appname</i> attribute value in the mapping
              file.<codeblock outputclass="language-ini" id="codeblock_gnm_cgk_54b">http://localhost/webhelp/cshelp.html?contextId=topicID&amp;appname=myApplication</codeblock></dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
    </section>
    <note id="note_dlk_d1w_swb" type="tip">The <xref
        href="webhelp-responsive-plugin-additional-parameters.dita#webhelp-responsive-plugin-additional-parameters/section_rxq_j1w_swb"
          ><codeph>webhelp.csh.disable.topicID.fallback</codeph> parameter</xref> can be set
        <i>true</i> to use a topic ID fallback when <codeph>resourceid</codeph> information is not
      available when computing the mapping for context sensitive help.</note>
  </body>
</topic>
