<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="whr-publishing-template-feature">
  <title>WebHelp Publishing Template</title>
  <shortdesc><term>WebHelp Publishing Template</term> defines all aspects related with the <b>look
      and feel(layout and styles)</b> of the <b>WebHelp Responsive output</b>. </shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <draft-comment author="radu_pisoi">Should explain the publishing template concept from the user
      perspective without many developer notes.</draft-comment>
    <section id="section_bcx_fqj_wcb">
      <title>Easy to share with others</title>
      <p>A <i>WebHelp Publishing Template</i> was designed as a self-contained package stored either
        as a ZIP archive or as a folder on disk.</p>
      <p>This method allows you to easily share the publishing template with other people. The
        common uses cases are:</p>
      <p>
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Develop a Publishing Template and Share it with others</dt>
            <dd>Because the publishing template is stored in a ZIP archive, it is easier for a
              developer to share its work with others by sending a ZIP archive. On the other hand,
              the template users will add the template in gallery so it will be visible on the next
              time when they display the Transformation Scenario dialog.</dd>
            <dd>Moreover, A publishing template allows you to specify a name, description and author
              making the communication between developer and users more easier.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Share Publishing Template with Your Team</dt>
            <dd>
              <p>The easiest way to achieve this is to use a template gallery for your project. </p>
              <p>This implies to: <ul id="ul_ms3_c5j_wcb">
                  <li>copy your template in a folder, lets say
                      <filepath>webhelp-templates</filepath>.</li>
                  <li>open the DITA/Publishing preferences page and add the above folder to the
                    template galleries list. To share the same preferences with your team, switch
                    the DITA/Publishing preferences page as project level.</li>
                </ul></p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Develop a Publishing Template and use it in an Automatic Publishing System</dt>
            <dd>Another use case is that you can develop a publishing template in oXygen XML
              Editor/Author. Once you have define it, you can export it and use it in an automatic
              publishing system like Jenkins or Travis.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_ox2_yrj_wcb">
      <title>Easy to upgrate to a new version</title>
      <p>Another benefit of this customization method is it allows you to easily <b>upgrade from an
          older version of <ph keyref="product"/></b>. </p>
      <p>A publishing template is external to the WebHelp plugin or oXygen XML Editor/Author. So, it
        won't be necessary to compare the WebHelp plugins to merge your customizations.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_rj5_rqj_wcb">
      <title>Tightly integrated with oXygen XML Editor/Author</title>
      <p>The <ph keyref="product"/> and publishing template concept are tightly integrated with
        oXygen XML Editor/Author helping you to:.</p>
      <sectiondiv>
        <p><b>Define your publishing templates gallery</b></p>
        <p>You can store your custom templates in a templates gallery. The templates stored in the
          gallery will be presented in the transformation scenario dialog as first items.</p>
        <p>You can define your templates gallery by going to the DITA / Publishing preferences page
          and adding more entries in the <uicontrol>Additional Publishing Templates
            Galleries</uicontrol> list.</p>
      </sectiondiv>
      <sectiondiv><p><b>Publishing WebHelp output using a template</b></p>The predefined publishing
        templates and the ones collected from the template gallery are presented in the
        transformation scenario dialog. </sectiondiv>
      <sectiondiv>So, you simply select a template and apply the transformation to get the WebHelp
        output associated with the template.</sectiondiv>
      <sectiondiv>
        <p><b>Develop a Publishing Template</b></p>
        <p>A publishing template is stored either in a ZIP archive or in a folder. If it is a ZIP
          archive, you can extract it in a folder and link it in Project view. Using the project
          view, you can manage its resources.</p>
        <p>To edit the publishing template descriptor, you can open it in the editor. The content
          completion and validation support will help you to edit it.</p>
        <p>See more in the <xref keyref="wh-publishing-template"/> topic.</p>        
      </sectiondiv>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>
