<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="whr-search-outout">
  <title>Searching the output</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
          >WebHelp Responsive <indexterm>Search features</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
          >WebHelp Responsive <indexterm>Search rules</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm product="webhelp-responsive ope">Search features</indexterm>
        <indexterm product="webhelp-responsive ope">Search rules</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>WebHelp Responsive output can be configured to work with multiple search engines.</p>
    <p id="p_jtm_1nf_czb">The WebHelp Responsive plugin comes with an embedded JS based search
      engine configured by default. This search engine is recommended for a small or medium-sized
      documentation, offering a fairly good set of features such as sorting results by relevance,
      5-star rating mechanism, custom rules for element scoring.</p>
    <p id="p_rfs_1pf_czb">In addition to the embedded JS search engine, the WebHelp Responsive
      output can be easily configured to use the search engine from Oxygen Feedback product. This is
      a more advanced search engine, suitable for large documentation, and with a wider range of
      features: semantic search, faceted search or labels search.</p>
    <p id="p_slq_ctf_czb">If none of the above options represent a choice, then the WebHelp
      Responsive transformation can be configured to work with an external search engine. See the
      topics for more details.</p>
    <p id="p_d5x_3hj_dzb">TODO: Add more differences between the two engines.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
