<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="whr-insert-custom-html-pt">
  <title>Referring the HTML fragment from a Publishing Template</title>
  <taskbody>
    <steps id="steps_zgt_vhz_wcb">
      <step>
        <cmd importance="optional">Create a new <xref keyref="whr-create-publishing-template"
            >publishing template</xref>. Skip this step you have already one.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Open the <xref
            href="whr_publishing_template_contents.dita#whr_publishing_template_contents/template_descriptor_file"
            >template descriptor file</xref> associated with your publishing template. If you are
          not familiar with <abbreviated-form keyref="glossentry-wh-publishing-template"/> concept,
          you can follow the <xref keyref="whr_edit-publishing-template">edit a publishing
            template</xref> procedure.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Insert the HTML content in a well-formed XML file,
            <filepath>custom-html.html</filepath> for instance.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Using the project view, copy your custom HTML fragment in an inner folder within
          publishing template root folder, in the
            <filepath>custom_footer_template/html-fragments</filepath> folder for instance. </cmd>
        <stepresult>You should have the
            <filepath>custom_footer_template/html-fragments/custom-html.html</filepath> file in your
          publishing package root folder.</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Add a reference to the custom HTML fragment in the <term>html-fragments</term> section
          of the publishing template descriptor.</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;publishing-template>
    ...    
    &lt;webhelp>
      ...
      &lt;html-fragments>
        &lt;fragment 
          file="html-fragments/custom-html.html" 
          placeholder="webhelp.fragment.head"/></codeblock>
        </info>
        <info>
          <note>If you want to insert the content in another location within the output document,
            you can reference the XML file from any other <xref
              href="whr_publishing_template_contents.dita#whr_publishing_template_contents/html_fragment_extension_points"
              >HTML Fragment extension points</xref>.</note>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <?oxy_comment_start author="radu_pisoi" timestamp="20180222T091219+0200" comment="We can replace these steps with a reference to &apos;How to Use a Publishing Template from oXygen&apos; procedure."?>
        <cmd>Open the <term>DITA Map WebHelp Responsive</term> transformation scenario.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Use the
            <uicontrol><?oxy_comment_start author="radu_pisoi" timestamp="20180214T215723+0200" comment="Link to action"?>Choose
            Custom Publishing Template<?oxy_comment_end?></uicontrol> and select your newly created
          template.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> to save the changes to the transformation
          scenario.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Run the transformation scenario.</cmd><?oxy_comment_end?>
      </step>
    </steps>
    <result id="result_bjx_ndm_wcb">
      <p>Your additional content will be included at the end of the <codeph>head</codeph> element of
        your output document.</p>
    </result>
  </taskbody>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link
        href="whr_publishing_template_contents.dita#whr_publishing_template_contents/html_fragment_extension_points"/>
      <link href="whr_publishing_template_contents.dita"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</task>
