<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="whr-copy-additional-resources-pt">
  <title>Publishing from Oxygen XML Editor/Author</title>
  <taskbody>
    <context id="context_jsv_jlt_wcb">To copy additional resources to the output directory using a
      transformation scenario from <b>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</b>, follow this procedure:</context>
    <steps id="steps_nhp_klt_wcb">
      <step>
        <cmd>Create a new <xref keyref="whr-create-publishing-template">publishing template</xref>.
          Skip this step you have already one.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Place all your resources in the directory associated with the publishing template. You
          can create a new one, <filepath>custom-resources</filepath> for instance.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Open the <xref keyref="whr-template-descriptor">template descriptor</xref> associated
          with your publishing template. If you are not familiar with <abbreviated-form
            keyref="glossentry-wh-publishing-template"/> concept, you can follow the <xref
            keyref="whr_edit-publishing-template">edit a publishing template</xref> procedure.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Add a new <xmlelement>fileset</xmlelement> element in <xref
          keyref="whr-template-resources">resources section</xref> of the template descriptor.</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;publishing-template>
    ...
    &lt;webhelp>
        ...                
        &lt;resources>            
            &lt;fileset>
                &lt;include name="custom-resources/**/*"/>
                &lt;exclude name="**/*.git"/>
            &lt;/fileset></codeblock></info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Open the <term>DITA Map WebHelp Responsive</term> transformation scenario.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Use the
            <uicontrol><?oxy_comment_start author="radu_pisoi" timestamp="20180214T215723+0200" comment="Link to action"?>Choose
            Custom Publishing Template<?oxy_comment_end?></uicontrol> and select your newly created
          template.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> to save the changes to the transformation
          scenario.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Run the transformation scenario.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>
    <result id="result_xd4_snt_wcb">
      <p>All files from the custom resources directory will be copied to the
            <filepath><abbreviated-form keyref="glossentry-wh-out-dir"
          />/oxygen-webhelp/template</filepath> folder.</p>
    </result>
  </taskbody>
</task>
