<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="whr-custom-search-filter">
  <title>How to Implement a Custom Search Filter</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>WebHelp Responsive<indexterm>Custom search filter</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
      <keywords>
        <keyword outputclass="label" product="webhelp-responsive">Publishing Template</keyword>
        <keyword outputclass="label" product="webhelp-responsive">Search Engine</keyword>
        <keyword outputclass="label" product="webhelp-responsive">Transformation
          Parameters</keyword>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_kt4_cgk_54b">It is possible to implement a custom search filter (search input
      component) in your WebHelp Responsive output. The search input component is where users enter
      search queries to locate certain content within the WebHelp output.</p>
    <p id="p_ot4_cgk_54b">To integrate a custom search filter, follow these steps: <ol
        id="ol_pt4_cgk_54b">
        <li id="li_qt4_cgk_54b">If you have not already created a Publishing Template, see <xref
            href="ope-create-publishing-template.dita">How to Create a Publishing
          Template</xref>.</li>
        <li id="li_rt4_cgk_54b">Create the following items in the folder that contains your
          publishing descriptor file (the <filepath>.opt</filepath> file):<itemgroup>
            <ul id="ul_st4_cgk_54b">
              <li id="li_vt4_cgk_54b">A folder named <filepath>js</filepath>. </li>
              <li id="li_ugy_p12_dvb">A folder named <filepath>fragments</filepath>. </li>
            </ul>
          </itemgroup></li>
        <li id="li_zt4_cgk_54b">In the <b>js</b> folder, create a file named
          <b>search-filter.js</b>. </li>
        <li id="li_a54_cgk_54b">As a starting point, you can copy the following content to the
            <b>search-filter.js</b> file: <itemgroup>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-javascript" id="codeblock_b54_cgk_54b">/**
 * Object that implements the methods required by WebHelp to run a search filter.
 */
function CustomSearchFilter() {

    /**
     * Method required to run the search filter in webhelp. It is called when the users 
     * executes the query in the search page. 
     * 
     * @param {WebHelpAPI.SearchResult} searchResult The search result for the executed query.
     *
     * @return A list of WebHelpAPI.SearchResult objects
     */
    this.filterResults = function (searchResult) {
        // implement filter
        return filteredResults;
    }
}

// Set the Search Filter to WebHelp
WebHelpAPI.setCustomSearchFilter(new CustomSearchFilter());
...</codeblock>
            <note id="note_jsw_253_bvb">See the <xref
                href="whr_how_to_replace_webhelp_search_engine.dita#whr_how_to_replace_webhelp_search_engine/section_rsg_vn3_bvb"
                >API Search Objects section</xref> for details on how to create a
                <codeph>WebHelpAPI.SearchResult</codeph> object.</note>
          </itemgroup></li>
        <li id="li_e54_cgk_54b">Implement your custom search filter.</li>
        <li id="li_hy1_3b2_dvb">In the <b>fragments</b> folder, create a file named
            <b>search-filter-script-fragment.xml</b>.</li>
        <li id="li_g54_cgk_54b">In the <b>search-filter-script-fragment.xml</b> file, define the
          scripts that are required for your custom search filter to run. For example: <itemgroup>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_h54_cgk_54b">&lt;div>
    &lt;script src="${oxygen-webhelp-template-dir}/js/search-filter.js">&lt;/script>
&lt;/div></codeblock>
          </itemgroup></li>
        <li id="li_i54_cgk_54b">Copy the <b>js</b> folder to the output folder during the
          transformation process. For this, open the <filepath>.opt</filepath> file and add the
          following content in the <xmlelement>resources</xmlelement> section (see <xref
            href="whr_publishing_template_contents.dita#template_resources">Template
            Resources</xref> for more details):<itemgroup>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_j54_cgk_54b">&lt;fileset>
  &lt;include name="js/**"/>
&lt;/fileset></codeblock>
          </itemgroup></li>
        <li id="li_k54_cgk_54b">Set the transformation parameters needed to enable the custom search
          filter. For this, open the <filepath>.opt</filepath> file and add the following content
          inside the <xmlelement>webhelp</xmlelement> element: <itemgroup>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_l54_cgk_54b">&lt;html-fragments>
  &lt;fragment file="fragments/search-filter-script-fragment.xml" 
      placeholder="webhelp.fragment.head.search.page"/>
&lt;/html-fragments></codeblock>
          </itemgroup></li>
        <li id="li_m54_cgk_54b"> Run the transformation with this publishing template selected.
        </li>
      </ol></p>
  </body>
</topic>
