<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="whr-508_vpat">
  <title>WebHelp Responsive 508 VPAT</title>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> was designed to adhere to the U.S. Government Section 508
      accessibility standards. The following document describes the accessibility features that
      address the Section 508 Standards. This VPAT (Voluntary Product Accessibility Template) is an
      informational tool developed by industry and government to help facilitate the understanding
      of compatibility issues under Section 508.</p>
    <p>
      <table id="table_ask_42n_sdb">
        <title>1194.22 Web-based intranet and internet information and applications. </title>
        <tgroup cols="3">
          <colspec colnum="1" colname="col1"/>
          <colspec colnum="2" colname="col2"/>
          <colspec colnum="3" colname="col3"/>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>Criteria</entry>
              <entry>Supporting Features</entry>
              <entry>Remarks and Explanations</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>(a) A text equivalent for every non-text element shall be provided
                (<i>e.g.</i>, via “<codeph>alt</codeph>”, “<codeph>longdesc</codeph>”, or in element
                content).</entry>
              <entry>Supports with exceptions</entry>
              <entry>
                <ul id="ul_pkl_5wl_xdb">
                  <li>WebHelp Responsive specific components (navigational buttons, menu,
                    breadcrumb) satisfy this rule.</li>
                  <li> For HTML content generated from a DITA topic, technical writers have
                    responsibility to write DITA topics that are conforming with this criterion. See
                      <xref href="whr-write-dita-content-accessible-whr-output.dita"/></li>
                  <li>Developers of custom WebHelp templates are responsible for ensuring the
                    template conforms to this criterion.</li>
                </ul>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>(b) Equivalent alternatives for any multimedia presentation shall be
                synchronized with the presentation.</entry>
              <entry>Supports with exceptions</entry>
              <entry>WebHelp Responsive plugin has support to transfer multimedia objects (video,
                audio) from DITA topics to the generated HTML pages. Technical writers are
                responsible for ensuring that their use multimedia objects conform to this
                criterion.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>(c) Web pages shall be designed so that all information conveyed with color is
                also available without color, for example from context or markup.</entry>
              <entry>Supports with exceptions</entry>
              <entry>
                <ul id="ul_ksq_bhm_xdb">
                  <li><?oxy_comment_start author="radu_pisoi" timestamp="20180523T120033+0300" comment="WH-1873 - Create an accessible WebHelp template - friendly with people with disabilities
https://jira.sync.ro:8443/browse/WH-1873"?>The
                    WebHelp built-in theme designed to help people visually impaired is
                    THEME_NAME.<?oxy_comment_end?></li>
                  <li>Developers of custom WebHelp templates are responsible for ensuring the
                    template conforms to this criterion.</li>
                </ul>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>(d) Documents shall be organized so they are readable without requiring an
                associated style sheet.</entry>
              <entry>Supports</entry>
              <entry>The WebHelp Responsive output does not require style sheets in order to be
                readable.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>(e) Redundant text links shall be provided for each active region of a
                server-side image map.</entry>
              <entry>Not applicable.</entry>
              <entry>The product contains no server-side image maps.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>(f) Client-side image maps shall be provided instead of server-side image maps
                except where the regions cannot be defined with an available geometric
                shape.</entry>
              <entry>Supports with exceptions.</entry>
              <entry>Technical writers can insert image maps in DITA topics. They are responsible to
                specify all information required to generate accessible image maps, see
                <?oxy_comment_start author="radu_pisoi" timestamp="20180522T151326+0300" comment="Link to Accessible image maps topic."?>Accessible
                image maps in documentation<?oxy_comment_end?> topic.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>(g) Row and column headers shall be identified for data tables.</entry>
              <entry>Supports with exceptions.</entry>
              <entry><?oxy_comment_start author="radu_pisoi" timestamp="20180523T120541+0300" comment="There are some DITA-OT issues related with this criterion:
https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2962"?>Technical
                writers can insert tables in DITA topics. They are responsible to specify all
                information required to generate accessible tables, see
                <?oxy_comment_start author="radu_pisoi" timestamp="20180522T151326+0300" comment="Link to Accessible Tables topic."?>Accessible
                tables in documentation<?oxy_comment_end?> topic.<?oxy_comment_end?></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>(h) Markup shall be used to associate data cells and header cells for data
                tables that have two or more logical levels of row or column headers.</entry>
              <entry>Supports with exceptions.</entry>
              <?oxy_comment_start author="radu_pisoi" timestamp="20180523T120602+0300" comment="There are some DITA-OT issues related with this criterion:
https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2963"?>
              <entry>Technical writers can insert tables in DITA topics. They are responsible to
                specify all information required to generate accessible tables, see
                <?oxy_comment_start author="radu_pisoi" timestamp="20180522T151326+0300" comment="Link to Accessible Tables topic."?>Accessible
                tables in documentation<?oxy_comment_end?> topic.</entry><?oxy_comment_end?>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>(i) Frames shall be titled with text that facilitates frame identification and
                navigation.</entry>
              <entry>Not applicable</entry>
              <entry>The WebHelp Responsive output does not use frames.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>(j) Pages shall be designed to avoid causing the screen to flicker with a
                frequency greater than 2 Hz and lower than 55 Hz.</entry>
              <entry>Not applicable</entry>
              <entry>No portion of the screen flickers or flashes with a frequency between 2 Hz and
                55 Hz.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>(k) A text-only page, with equivalent information or functionality, shall be
                provided to make a web site comply with the provisions of this part, when compliance
                cannot be accomplished in any other way. The content of the text-only page shall be
                updated whenever the primary page changes.</entry>
              <entry>Not applicable</entry>
              <entry>Accessibility provisions in WebHelp Responsive output can be provided without
                requiring a separate text-only version.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>(l) When pages utilize scripting languages to display content, or to create
                interface elements, the information provided by the script shall be identified with
                functional text that can be read by assistive technology.</entry>
              <entry>Supports with exceptions</entry>
              <entry>Developers of custom WebHelp templates are responsible for ensuring the
                template conforms to this criterion.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>(m) When a web page requires that an applet, plug-in or other application be
                present on the client system to interpret page content, the page must provide a link
                to a plug-in or applet that complies with 1194.21(a) through (l).</entry>
              <entry>Not Applicable</entry>
              <entry>This product does not use any plugins or applets.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>(n) When electronic forms are designed to be completed on-line, the form shall
                allow people using assistive technology to access the information, field elements,
                and functionality required for completion and submission of the form, including all
                directions and cues.</entry>
              <entry>Supports with exceptions</entry>
              <entry>Developers of custom WebHelp templates are responsible for ensuring the
                template conforms to this criterion.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>(o) A method shall be provided that permits users to skip repetitive navigation
                links.</entry>
              <entry>Supports</entry>
              <entry>All HTML pages generated by the WebHelp Responsive plugin implement the
                technique to bypass blocks of content that are repeated on multiple pages.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>(p) When a timed response is required, the user shall be alerted and given
                sufficient time to indicate more time is required.</entry>
              <entry>Not applicable</entry>
              <entry>WebHelp Responsive output does not require a timed response as part of its core
                functionality.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </p>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link format="html"
        href="https://www.access-board.gov/guidelines-and-standards/communications-and-it/about-the-section-508-standards/section-508-standards"
        scope="external">
        <linktext>Section 508 Standards for Electronic and Information Technology</linktext>
      </link>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
