<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="whr-create-publishing-template">
    <title>Creating a WebHelp Publishing Template</title>
    <shortdesc>Describes how to create a new WebHelp Publishing Template by using the
    <?oxy_comment_start author="radu_pisoi" timestamp="20180214T211552+0200" comment="LInk to the Save Template as action"?>Save
    Template As...<?oxy_comment_end?> action. This action is available in the oXygen XML Editor and
    oXygen XML Author.</shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p>To create a new WebHelp Responsive template, follow these steps:</p>
        </context>      
        <steps>
            <step>              
              <cmd>Locate the following folder in your DITA-OT directory (<term
                keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"
                ></term>):<codeph outputclass="language-ini"><term keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"></term>/plugins/com.oxygenxml.webhelp.responsive/templates/dita/</codeph></cmd>
            </step>
          <step>
          <cmd>Duplicate the <filepath>bootstrap</filepath> folder and rename it to whatever you want
                your new template to be identified as (for example,
                <filepath>myTemplate</filepath>).</cmd>
          </step>
              <step><cmd>Customize the structure of the new template according to your needs. For example, if
                you only want to keep one of the template variants, open the
                <filepath>myTemplate/variants</filepath> folder and delete all of its subdirectories,
                except for that one (for instance, the <filepath>tiles</filepath> directory). Keep in
                mind that the structure of the template directory is important. The names of folders at
                certain levels correspond to the names of templates and skins, while components and
                resources are defined and referenced in certain files or folders at specific locations
                within the directory structure. For more information, see <xref
                  keyref="wh-publishing-template"/>.</cmd></step>
              <step><cmd>You can also customize the structure of the skins within the template variants. For
                example, if you only want to keep one of the skins in the <filepath>tiles</filepath>
                variant, open the <filepath>myTemplate/variants/tiles</filepath> folder and delete all
                of its subdirectory skins, except for that one (for instance, the
                <filepath>light</filepath> directory). You can also edit the <codeph>skin.css</codeph>
                file that is located in the skin directory to customize the styling. If your
                customization of the CSS file requires additional resources (such as images, fonts, or
                other CSS files), they need to be placed in the <filepath>resources</filepath> folder at
                the same level with the <filepath>skin.css</filepath> file.</cmd></step>
              <step><cmd>To customize the components that appear in the WebHelp Responsive output, you can
                modify the HTML template files that define the output. For more information, see  <xref
                  keyref="whr-html-layout-pages"/>.</cmd></step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
