<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="whr-section-508-vpat">
  <title>WebHelp Responsive 508 VPAT</title>
  <body>
    <p><b>WebHelp Responsive</b> was designed to adhere to the U.S. Government Section 508
      accessibility standards. This document describes the accessibility features that address the
      Section 508 Standards. This VPAT (Voluntary Product Accessibility Template) is an
      informational tool developed by industry and government to help facilitate the understanding
      of compatibility issues under Section 508.</p>
    <p>
      <table id="table_ask_42n_sdb" colsep="1" rowsep="1" frame="all">
        <title>1194.22 Web-based intranet and internet information and applications. </title>
        <tgroup cols="3">
          <colspec colnum="1" colname="col1"/>
          <colspec colnum="2" colname="col2"/>
          <colspec colnum="3" colname="col3"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Criteria</entry>
              <entry>Supporting Features</entry>
              <entry>Remarks and Explanations</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>(a) A text equivalent for every non-text element shall be provided
                (<i>e.g.</i>, via “<codeph>alt</codeph>”, “<codeph>longdesc</codeph>”, or in element
                content)</entry>
              <entry>Supported with exceptions</entry>
              <entry>
                <ul id="ul_pkl_5wl_xdb">
                  <li>The process that produces the WebHelp Responsive accessible output uses
                    information extracted from the DITA topics. It is the technical writer's
                    responsibility to <xref href="whr-write-dita-content-accessible-whr-output.dita"
                      >write accessible-friendly DITA topics</xref>.</li>
                  <li>The developers who customize the WebHelp output are responsible for ensuring
                    that the template they customize conforms to this criterion.</li>
                </ul>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>(b) Equivalent alternatives for any multimedia presentation shall be
                synchronized with the presentation</entry>
              <entry>Supported with exceptions</entry>
              <entry>WebHelp Responsive plugin offers support to transfer multimedia objects (video,
                audio) from DITA topics to the generated HTML pages. Technical writers are
                responsible for ensuring that they use multimedia objects that conform to this
                criterion.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>(c) Web pages shall be designed so that all information conveyed with color is
                also available without color, for example from context or markup</entry>
              <entry>Supported with exceptions</entry>
              <entry>
                <ul id="ul_ksq_bhm_xdb">
                  <li>The built-in <term>Cobalt</term> theme was specially designed to help visually
                    impaired users.</li>
                  <li>The developers who customize the WebHelp output are responsible for ensuring
                    that the template they customize conforms to this criterion.</li>
                </ul>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>(d) Documents shall be organized so they are readable without requiring an
                associated style sheet</entry>
              <entry>Supported</entry>
              <entry>The WebHelp Responsive output is readable without requiring any
                stylesheet</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>(e) Redundant text links shall be provided for each active region of a
                server-side image map</entry>
              <entry>Not applicable</entry>
              <entry>The product contains no server-side image maps</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>(f) Client-side image maps shall be provided instead of server-side image maps
                except where the regions cannot be defined with an available geometric shape</entry>
              <entry>Supported with exceptions</entry>
              <entry>Technical writers can insert image maps in DITA topics. They are responsible
                for specifying the information required to generate <xref
                  href="whr_accessible_image_maps.dita">accessible image maps</xref>.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>(g) Row and column headers shall be identified for data tables</entry>
              <entry>Supported with exceptions</entry>
              <entry>Technical writers can insert tables in DITA topics. They are responsible for
                inputting the information required to generate <xref
                  href="whr_acceessible_tables.dita">accessible tables</xref>.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>(h) Markup shall be used to associate data cells and header cells for data
                tables that have two or more logical levels of row or column headers</entry>
              <entry>Supported with exceptions</entry>
              <entry>Technical writers can insert tables in DITA topics. They are responsible for
                inputting the information required to generate <xref
                  href="whr_acceessible_tables.dita">accessible tables</xref>.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>(i) Frames shall be titled with text that facilitates frame identification and
                navigation</entry>
              <entry>Not applicable</entry>
              <entry>The WebHelp Responsive output does not use frames</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>(j) Pages shall be designed to avoid causing the screen to flicker with a
                frequency greater than 2 Hz and lower than 55 Hz</entry>
              <entry>Not applicable</entry>
              <entry>The screen does not flicker with frequencies greater than 2 Hz and lower than
                55 Hz</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>(k) A text-only page, with equivalent information or functionality, shall be
                provided to make a website comply with the provisions of this part, when compliance
                cannot be accomplished in any other way. The content of the text-only page shall be
                updated whenever the primary page changes.</entry>
              <entry>Not applicable</entry>
              <entry>Accessibility provisions in WebHelp Responsive output can be provided without
                requiring a separate text-only version.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>(l) When pages utilize scripting languages to display content, or to create
                interface elements, the information provided by the script shall be identified with
                functional text that can be read by assistive technology</entry>
              <entry>Supported with exceptions</entry>
              <entry>The developers who customize the WebHelp output are responsible for ensuring
                that the template they customize conforms to this criterion</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>(m) When a web page requires that an applet, plug-in or other application be
                present on the client system to interpret page content, the page must provide a link
                to a plug-in or applet that complies with 1194.21(a) through (l)</entry>
              <entry>Not Applicable</entry>
              <entry>This product does not use any plugins or applets</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>(n) When electronic forms are designed to be completed on-line, the form shall
                allow people using assistive technology to access the information, field elements,
                and functionality required for completion and submission of the form, including all
                directions and cues</entry>
              <entry>Supported with exceptions</entry>
              <entry>The developers who customize the WebHelp output are responsible for ensuring
                that the template they customize conforms to this criterion</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>(o) A method shall be provided that permits users to skip repetitive navigation
                links</entry>
              <entry>Supported</entry>
              <entry/>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>(p) When a timed response is required, the user shall be alerted and given
                sufficient time to indicate more time is required</entry>
              <entry>Not applicable</entry>
              <entry>WebHelp Responsive output does not require a timed response as part of its core
                functionality</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </p>
    <note>This VPAT pertains only to the HTML output generated by the WebHelp Responsive plugin as
      shipped and not to any customization. It specifically applies to version 20.1 or above and it
      does not apply to any versions prior to this.</note>
    <section id="section_nx2_3yn_xdb">
      <title>Supported Platforms</title>
      <p>All accessibility tests have been carried out in the following environment:</p>
      <ul id="ul_idh_2rk_zdb">
        <li><xref href="https://www.nvaccess.org" format="html" scope="external">NVDA</xref> (Non
          Visual Desktop Access) version 2018.1.1 with Firefox version 60.0.1 and Chrome version
          66.0.3359.181.</li>
        <li>Windows 10 Narrator with Microsoft Edge browser.</li>
      </ul>
      <p>However, this does not mean that WebHelp Responsive-generated output has any issue with
        other modern, standards-compliant browsers and alternative screen reader solutions. In any
        case, if you encounter any accessibility-related issue while using WebHelp Responsive
        generated output, contact the <xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/technical_support.html"
          format="html" scope="external"><b>Oxygen support team</b></xref>. All accessibility issues
        are treated with utmost attention.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link format="html"
        href="https://www.access-board.gov/guidelines-and-standards/communications-and-it/about-the-section-508-standards/section-508-standards"
        scope="external">
        <linktext>Section 508 Standards for Electronic and Information Technology</linktext>
      </link>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
