<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="whr-copy-additional-resources">
  <title>How to Copy Additional Resources to Output Directory</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
          >WebHelp Responsive <indexterm>Copy resources to output directory</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm product="webhelp-responsive ope">Copy resources to output directory</indexterm>
      </keywords>
      <keywords>
        <keyword outputclass="label" product="webhelp-responsive">Publishing Template</keyword>
        <keyword outputclass="label" product="webhelp-responsive">Transformation
          Parameters</keyword>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_y44_cgk_54b">You can copy additional resources (such as graphics, JavaScript, CSS,
      entire folders, or other resources) to the output directory either by using an <xref
        keyref="glossentry-wh-publishing-template"><term>Oxygen Publishing Template</term></xref>,
      the <codeph>webhelp.custom.resources</codeph> parameter or by referencing it in the DITA Map
      .</p>
    <section id="copying_additional_resources_template">
      <title>Copying Additional Resources to the Output Directory using a Publishing
        Template</title>
      <p id="p_z44_cgk_54b">
        <ol id="ol_ap4_cgk_54b">
          <li id="li_bp4_cgk_54b">If you have not already created a Publishing Template, see <xref
              href="whr-create-publishing-template.dita">How to Create a Publishing
            Template</xref>.</li>
          <li id="li_cp4_cgk_54b">Add a new <xmlelement>fileset</xmlelement> element in the <xref
              href="whr_publishing_template_contents.dita#template_resources">resources section of
              the template descriptor
              file</xref>.<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_dp4_cgk_54b">&lt;publishing-template>
    ...
    &lt;webhelp>
        ...                
        &lt;resources>            
            &lt;fileset>
                &lt;include name="custom-resources/**/*"/>
                &lt;exclude name="**/*.git"/>
            &lt;/fileset></codeblock><note id="note_ep4_cgk_54b">Relative paths in the descriptor file are
              relative to the template root folder.</note></li>
          <li id="li_fp4_cgk_54b">Open the <term>DITA Map WebHelp Responsive</term> transformation scenario.</li>
          <li id="li_gp4_cgk_54b">Click the <uicontrol>Choose Custom Publishing Template</uicontrol> link and select
            your template.</li>
          <li id="li_hp4_cgk_54b">Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> to save the changes to the transformation
            scenario.</li>
          <li id="li_ip4_cgk_54b">Run the transformation scenario.</li>
        </ol>
      </p>
      <p id="p_jp4_cgk_54b"><b>Results:</b> All files from the custom resources directory will be copied to the
            <filepath><abbreviated-form keyref="glossentry-wh-out-dir"
          />/oxygen-webhelp/template</filepath> folder.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="copying_additional_resources_parameter">
      <title>Copying Additional Resources to the Output Directory using a Transformation
        Parameter</title>
      <p id="p_kp4_cgk_54b">
        <ol id="ol_lp4_cgk_54b">
          <li id="li_mp4_cgk_54b">Place all your resources in the same directory.</li>
          <li id="li_np4_cgk_54b">Edit the <term>DITA Map WebHelp Responsive</term> transformation scenario and open the
              <uicontrol>Parameters</uicontrol> tab.</li>
          <li id="li_op4_cgk_54b">Edit the value of the <codeph>webhelp.custom.resources</codeph> parameter and set it
            to the absolute path of the directory in step 1.</li>
          <li id="li_pp4_cgk_54b">Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> to save the changes to the transformation
            scenario.</li>
          <li id="li_qp4_cgk_54b">Run the transformation scenario.</li>
        </ol>
      </p>
      <p id="p_rp4_cgk_54b"><b>Results:</b> All files from the new directory will be copied to the root of the WebHelp
        output directory.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_klk_v4h_1gc">
      <title>Copying Additional Resources to the Output Directory using DITA Map reference </title>
      <p>
        <ol id="ol_vyq_x4h_1gc">
          <li>Place the resources in the ditamap directory or in a folder under it.</li>
          <li>Open your ditamap file and declare the resource to be
            copied:<codeblock id="codeblock_tp4_1qh_1gc" outputclass="language-xml">&lt;topicref href="path/to/manual.pdf" format="pdf" processing-role="resource-only"/></codeblock></li>
          <li>Run the transformation scenario.</li>
        </ol>
      </p>
      <p><b>Result:</b> All files referenced this way will be copied at the path indicated by
          <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> in the ditamap.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
