<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="whr_how_to_replace_webhelp_search_engine">
    <title>Replacing the Search Engine Only</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <keyword outputclass="label" product="webhelp-responsive">Search Engine</keyword>
        <keyword outputclass="label" product="webhelp-responsive">Publishing Template</keyword>
        <keyword outputclass="label" product="webhelp-responsive">Customization</keyword>
        <keyword outputclass="label" product="webhelp-responsive">Transformation
          Parameters</keyword>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
    <body>
        <p id="p_q3z_n5f_czb">It is possible to replace the internal search engine that is used by
        <b>Oxygen XML WebHelp</b> by using a custom JavaScript file. This customization method
      allows you to replace the search engine but keep the search results presentation.</p>
    <p id="p_r3z_n5f_czb">To replace WebHelp's internal search engine, follow this procedure:</p>
        <ol id="ol_ebs_hhn_1vb">
            <li>If you have not already created a Publishing Template, see <xref
          href="ope-create-publishing-template.dita">How to Create a Publishing
        Template</xref>.</li>
            <li>Create the following items in the folder that contains your publishing descriptor
                file (the <b>.opt</b> file):<ul id="ul_fbs_hhn_1vb">
                    <li>A folder named <filepath>js</filepath>.</li>
                    <li>A folder named <filepath>fragments</filepath>.</li>
                </ul></li>
            <li>In the <filepath>js</filepath> folder, create a file named
          <filepath>search-engine.js</filepath>.</li>
            <li>As a starting point, you can copy the following content to the
          <filepath>search-engine.js</filepath>
          file:<codeblock id="pre_gbs_hhn_1vb" outputclass="language-javascript">/**
 * Object that implements the methods required by WebHelp to run a search engine.
 */
function CustomSearchEngine() {
     
  /**
   * Method required to run the search engine in webhelp. Handler when the users 
   * executes the query in the search page. 
   * 
   * @param {String} query            The search input string from the user.
   * @param {Function} successHandler Needs to be called if the search operation is executed
   *                                  successfully. The parameter needs to have the type of 
   *                                  WebHelpAPI.SearchResult
   * @param {Function} errorHandler   Needs to be called if the search operation fails to
   *                                  execute successfully. It needs to have the type 
   *                                  of String. 
   */
  this.performSearchOperation = function(query, successHandler, errorHandler) {
      // implement search engine
      // const searchRestult = externalSearchEngine(query);

      // convert the result to WebHelpApi.SearchResult
      // const formattedResult = convert(searchRestult);

      // call successHanlder with the converted result.
      // successHandler(formattedResult)  
  }

  /**
   * Method required to run the search engine in webhelp. Handler when the 
   * page is changed in the search page.
   * 
   * @param {Integer} pageToShow      The page to be dispalyed.
   * @param {Integer} maxItemsPerPage The maximum # of items that can be displayed on a page.
   * @param {String} query            The search input string from the user.
   * @param {Function} successHandler Needs to be called if the search operation is executed
   *                                  successfully. The parameter needs to have the type of
   *                                  WebHelpAPI.SearchResult 
   * @param {Function} errorHandler   Needs to be called if the search operation fails to
   *                                  execute successfully. It needs to have the type 
   *                                  of String.  
   */
  this.onPageChangedHandler = function(pageToShow, maxItemsPerPage, query, successHandler, 
errorHandler) {
      // implement search engine
      // const searchRestult = externalSearchEngine(pageToShot, maxItemsPerPage, query);

      // convert the result to WebHelpApi.SearchResult
      // const formattedResult = convert(searchRestult);

      // call successHanlder with the converted result.
      // successHandler(formattedResult)  
  }
}

// Set the Search Engine to WebHelp
WebHelpAPI.setCustomSearchEngine(new CustomSearchEngine());</codeblock><note
          id="note_jsw_253_bvb">See the <xref
            href="#whr_how_to_replace_webhelp_search_engine/section_rsg_vn3_bvb">API Search Objects
            section</xref> for details on how to convert your custom search engine results to
            <codeph>WebHelpAPI.SearchResult</codeph>.</note></li>
            <li>Implement your search engine.</li>
            <li>In the <filepath>fragments</filepath> folder, create a file named
          <filepath>search-engine-script-fragment.xml</filepath>.</li>
            <li>In the <filepath>search-engine-script-fragment.xml</filepath> file, define the
        scripts that are required for your search engine to run. For
        example:<codeblock id="pre_hbs_hhn_1vb" outputclass="language-xml">&lt;div>
    &lt;script src="${oxygen-webhelp-template-dir}/js/search-engine.js">&lt;/script>
&lt;/div></codeblock></li>
            <li>Copy the <filepath>js</filepath> folder to the output folder during the
        transformation process. For this, open the <filepath>.opt</filepath> file and add the
        following content in the <xmlelement>resources</xmlelement> section (see <xref
          href="whr_publishing_template_contents.dita#template_resources">Template Resources</xref>
        for more
        details):<codeblock id="pre_ibs_hhn_1vb" outputclass="language-xml">&lt;fileset>
  &lt;include name="js/**"/>
&lt;/fileset></codeblock></li>
            <li>Set the transformation parameters needed to enable the search filter. For this, open
        the <filepath>.opt</filepath> file and add the following content inside the
          <xmlelement>webhelp</xmlelement>
        element:<codeblock id="pre_jbs_hhn_1vb" outputclass="language-xml">&lt;html-fragments>
  &lt;fragment file="fragments/search-engine-script-fragment.xml" 
      placeholder="webhelp.fragment.head.search.page"/>
&lt;/html-fragments></codeblock></li>
        </ol>
        <section id="section_rsg_vn3_bvb">
            <title>API  Search Objects</title>
            <p>To replace the WebHelp Search Engine, you will need to convert your custom search
        result into WebHelp API Objects that WebHelp will use to render your search result on the
        search page. To convert your custom search result, you will have to create the following
          objects:<ol id="ol_twx_rbj_bvb">
          <li><i>WebHelpAPI.SearchMeta</i> is a JavaScript object used to hold additional
            information for the search result. To create such an object, the following fields are
              required:<ul id="ul_vr1_wr3_bvb">
              <li><uicontrol>String: searchEngineName</uicontrol> - The name of the search engine
                used to retrieve the search result. </li>
              <li><uicontrol>Integer: totalSearchItems</uicontrol> - The total number of search
                items the search engine returned. </li>
              <li><uicontrol>Integer: currentPage</uicontrol> - The current page to display. </li>
              <li><uicontrol>Integer: maxItemsPerPage</uicontrol> - The maximum number of items that
                can be displayed on a page. </li>
              <li><uicontrol>Integer: totalPages</uicontrol> - The number of total pages for the
                search result. </li>
              <li><uicontrol>String: originalSearchExpression</uicontrol> - The query string the
                user typed in the search input field.</li>
            </ul><codeblock id="codeblock_j3l_hs3_bvb" outputclass="language-javascript">conse searchMeta = new WebHelpAPI.SearchMeta(searchEngineName, totalSearchItems, currentPage, 
maxItemsPerPage, totalPages, origianlSearchExpresion);</codeblock></li>
          <li><i>WebHelpAPI.SearchDocument</i> is a JavaScript object used to hold the search result
            for a single topic/HTML page. To create such an object, the following fields are
              required:<ul id="ul_chq_dt3_bvb">
              <li><uicontrol>String: linkLocation</uicontrol> - The URL to the topic. </li>
              <li><uicontrol>String: title</uicontrol> - The topic title. </li>
              <li><uicontrol>String: shortDescription</uicontrol> - The topic short
                description.</li>
            </ul><codeblock id="codeblock_xwp_ht3_bvb" outputclass="language-javascript">const searchDocument = new WebHelpAPI.SearchDocument(linkLocation, title, shortDescription);</codeblock></li>
          <li><i>WebHelpAPI.SearchResult</i> is a JavaScript object used to display the search
            results in the search page. To create such an object, the following fields are
              required:<ul id="ul_mwf_zcj_bvb">
              <li><uicontrol>WebHelpAPI.SearchMeta: searchMeta</uicontrol> - Contains additional
                information for the search result.</li>
              <li><uicontrol>Array[WebHelpAPI.SearchDocument]: documents</uicontrol> - An array with
                the matching documents (HTML pages) for the search result.</li>
            </ul><codeblock id="codeblock_nwf_zcj_bvb" outputclass="language-javascript">conse searchMeta = new WebHelpAPI.SearchMeta(searchEngineName, totalSearchItems, currentPage, 
maxItemsPerPage, totalPages, origianlSearchExpresion);
const searchDocument = new WebHelpAPI.SearchDocument(linkLocation, title, shortDescription);
const documents = [searchDocument]; // An array with one element.
const searchResult = new WebHelpAPI.SearchResult(searchMeta, documents);</codeblock></li>
        </ol></p>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
