<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="working-with-special-characters">
  <title>Working with Special Characters and Encoding</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Special characters</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>While regular characters make up the English and European alphabets and the corresponding
      basic set of figures and symbols, there are many other <term>special characters</term> that
      belong to various other language representations, such as Arabic, Indian, Japanese, Chinese,
      or Korean. <ph keyref="product"/> provides support for special characters in various ways:</p>
    <p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Opening and Saving Documents</dt>
          <dd>The <xref href="http://unicode.org/standard/standard.html" format="html"
              scope="external">Unicode standard</xref> provides support for all the character
            symbols in all known languages and<ph keyref="product"/>
            <xref href="working-with-unicode.dita">provides support for all Unicode
              characters</xref>. There are various encoding options and features to help determine
            how to handle <xref href="open-save-Unicode-documents.dita#open-save-Unicode-documents"
              >documents with unsupported characters</xref>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Fonts</dt>
          <dd><ph keyref="product"/> provides the ability to <xref
              href="preferences-fonts.dita#preferences-fonts">choose the fonts to be used in the
              various editing modes</xref>. In some cases, changing the font may be a solution when
            special characters are not rendered as expected.<p>For special characters that are not
              included in any of the default fonts, <ph keyref="product"/> tries to find that symbol
              in a <xref href="unicode-font-support.dita#unicode-font-support"><i>fallback</i>
                font</xref>.<ph product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse"> For the
                  <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> editing mode, you can specify a set of fallback
                fonts in the <codeph>font-family</codeph> CSS property (in the particular CSS file
                used for rendering your documents). For more information, see the <xref
                  href="dg-css-support-in-author.dita"/> section.</ph><note type="tip">For documents
                written in languages that use special characters (such as Japanese or Chinese),
                change the font to one that supports the specific characters (a Unicode font). For
                the Windows platform, <i>Arial Unicode MS</i> or <i>MS Gothic</i> is recommended. To
                change the font in <ph keyref="product"/>, <ph
                  conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/>, go to
                  <menucascade product="author developer editor">
                  <uicontrol>Appearance</uicontrol>
                  <uicontrol>Fonts</uicontrol>
                </menucascade><uicontrol product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
                  >Fonts</uicontrol>. This preferences page allows you to select a font for each
                editing mode.</note></p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Navigation and Layout</dt>
          <dd><ph keyref="product"/> supports bidirectional text, such as Arabic, Hebrew, and
            certain Asian languages, or other special characters that are combined into a single
              glyph.<ph product="author developer editor"> In <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode, you
              can enable or disable the support for special characters. See <xref
                href="bidirectional-support.dita#bidirectional-support"/> for details about which
              option to choose.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Editing</dt>
          <dd><ph keyref="product"/> includes a contextual menu action that <xref
              href="text-mode-actions.dita#text-mode-actions/convert-hex-sequence">converts a
              sequence of hexadecimal characters to the corresponding Unicode character</xref>.<p>If
              you do not have a special way of inserting special characters using your keyboard, you
              can <xref href="unicode-toolbar.dita#unicode-toolbar">insert special characters using
                the <b>Character Map</b> feature</xref>.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
