<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="working-with-unicode">
  <title>Working with Unicode</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Edit<indexterm>Unicode support</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>Unicode provides a unique number for every character, independent of the platform and
      language. Unicode is an internationally recognized standard, adopted by industry leaders. The
      Unicode is required by modern standards such as XML, Java, ECMAScript (JavaScript), LDAP,
      CORBA 3.0, WML, etc., and is the official way to implement ISO/IEC 10646.</p>
    <p>It is supported in many operating systems, all modern browsers, and many other products. The
      emergence of the Unicode Standard, and the availability of tools supporting it, are among the
      most significant recent global software technology trends. Incorporating Unicode into
      client-server or multi-tiered applications and websites offers significant cost savings over
      the use of legacy character sets.</p>
    <p>As a modern XML Editor, <ph keyref="product"/>
      provides support for the Unicode standard enabling your XML application to be targeted across
      multiple platforms, languages, and countries without re-engineering. Internally, the <ph
        keyref="product"/> XML Editor uses 16bit
      characters covering the Unicode Character set.</p>
    <p product="editor author">As a Java application, <ph
        keyref="product"/> comes with a default Java
      input method for typing characters with Unicode codes. However, the default input method does
      not cover all the Unicode codes, for example the codes for some accented characters or
      characters found in East Asian languages. Such characters can be inserted in the editor panel
      of <ph keyref="product"/> either with <xref
        href="unicode-toolbar.dita#unicode-toolbar/figure-character-map-dialog"> the
          <uicontrol>Character Map</uicontrol> dialog</xref> available from menu <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Insert from Character Map</uicontrol>
      </menucascade> or by installing a Java input method that supports the insertion of the needed
      characters. The <xref
        href="http://java.sun.com/products/jfc/tsc/articles/InputMethod/inputmethod.html"
        scope="external" format="html">installation of a Java input method</xref> depends on the
      platform on which <ph keyref="product"/> runs
      (Windows, Mac OS X, Linux, etc) and is the same for any Java application.</p>
    <note><ph keyref="product"/> may not be able to
      display characters that are not supported by the operating system (either not installed or
      unavailable).</note>
    <note type="tip">On windows, you can enable the support for <b>CJK</b> (Chinese, Japanese,
      Korean) languages from <uicontrol>Control Panel / Regional and Language Options / Languages /
        Install files for East Asian languages</uicontrol>.</note>
  </body>
</topic>
