<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="working-with-content-references">
  <title>Working with Content References</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>DITA<indexterm>Reusing content<indexterm>Content
            References</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>DITA<indexterm>Content References</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>The DITA <codeph>conref</codeph> feature (short for <i>content reference</i>) lets you insert
      a piece of source content by referencing it from its source. When you need to update that
      content, you only need to do it in one place.</p>
    <p>There are several strategies for managing content references:</p>
    <ul>
      <li><i>Reusable components</i> - With this strategy, you create a new file for each piece of
        content that you want to reuse and you insert references from the content of the reusable
        component files. For example, suppose that you have a disclaimer that needs to be included
        in certain sections of your documentation. You can create a reusable component that contains
        your disclaimer and reuse it as often as you need to. If the disclaimer ever needed to be
        updated, you only have to edit it in one file. </li>
      <li><i>Single-source content references</i> - You may prefer to keep many pieces of reusable
        content in one file. For example, you might want to create a single file that contains all
        the actions that are available in various menus or toolbars for your software application.
        Then, wherever you need to describe or display an action in your documentation, you can
        reuse content from that single file by inserting content references. This strategy requires
        more setup than reusable components, but might make it easier to centrally managing the
        reused content and it allows for more flexibility in the XML structure of the reusable
        content.</li>
      <li><i>Arbitrary content references</i> - Although it is not recommended, you can create
        content references amongst topics without storing the reusable content in components or a
        single file. This strategy might make it difficult to manage content that is reused and to
        maintain continuity and accuracy, since you may not have any indication that content you are
        editing is reused elsewhere. </li>
    </ul>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> creates a reference to the external content by adding a
        <codeph>conref</codeph> attribute to an element in the local document. The
        <codeph>conref</codeph> attribute defines a link to the referenced content, made up of a
      path to the file and the topic ID within the file. The path may also reference a specific
      element ID within the topic. Referenced content is not physically copied to the referencing
      file. However, by default <ph keyref="product"/> displays it in <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol>
      mode as if it is there in the referencing file. If you do not want referenced content
      displayed, <ph conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/>, go to <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Edit modes</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>, and deselect the <xref
        keyref="options_author/display-referenced-content"
          ><uicontrol>Display referenced content</uicontrol> option</xref>.</p>
    <note>A reference also displays <xref keyref="glossentry_track-changes"><term>tracked
          changes</term></xref> and comments that are included in the source fragment. To edit these
      comments (or accept/reject changes) right-click the comment or tracked change and select
        <uicontrol>Edit Reference</uicontrol>.</note>
    <note id="search-content-references" type="tip">To search for references made through a direct
      content references, use the <uicontrol>Search References</uicontrol> action from the
      contextual menu.</note>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="dita-reusable-components.dita#dita-reusable-components"/>
      <link href="eppo-background-keys.dita#eppo-background-keys"/>
      <link href="conref-push-mechanism.dita#conref-push-mechanism"/>
      <link href="dita-reusable-components-view.dita#dita-reusable-components-view"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
