<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="workspace-access-plugin">
  <title>Workspace Access Plugin Extension</title>
  <shortdesc>This type of <xref keyref="glossentry_plugin"><term>plugin</term></xref> allows you to
    contribute actions to the main menu and toolbars, create custom views, interact with the
    application workspace, make modifications to opened documents, and add listeners for various
    events.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Plugin extensions<indexterm>Workspace Access</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Workspace Access plugin extension</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <p id="p_lf2_dgk_54b">Many complex integrations (such as integrations with Content Management Systems) usually
      requires access to some workspace resources such as toolbars, menus, views, and editors. This
      type of <term>plugin</term> is also useful because it allows you to make modifications to the
      XML content of an open editor.</p>
    <p id="p_mf2_dgk_54b">The <term>plugin</term> must implement the <xref
        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/exml/plugin/workspace/WorkspaceAccessPluginExtension.html"
        format="html" scope="external"><term>WorkspaceAccessPluginExtension</term></xref> interface.
      The callback method <term>applicationStarted</term> of this interface allows access to a
      parameter of the <xref
        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/exml/workspace/api/standalone/StandalonePluginWorkspace.html"
        format="html" scope="external"><term>StandalonePluginWorkspace</term></xref> type (allows
      for API access to the application workspace). <note id="note_ar4_sbz_3dc" type="important">For
        security reasons, if a plugin's <term>applicationStarted</term> callback delays the startup
        of the entire application by more than 15 seconds, it will continue to be loaded on a
        separate thread and may no longer properly contribute UI customizations.</note></p>
    <p id="p_nf2_dgk_54b">The <term>StandalonePluginWorkspace</term> interface has three methods
      that can be called to customize toolbars, menus, and views:</p>
    <p id="p_of2_dgk_54b">
      <dl id="dl_pf2_dgk_54b">
        <dlentry id="dlentry_qf2_dgk_54b">
          <dt><b><term>addToolbarComponentsCustomizer</term></b></dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_rf2_dgk_54b">Contributes to or modifies existing toolbars. You can specify additional toolbar IDs
              in the associated <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath> descriptor file using the following
              construct:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_sf2_dgk_54b">&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;!DOCTYPE plugin SYSTEM "../plugin.dtd">
&lt;plugin name="CustomWorkspaceAccess" ..............>
 &lt;runtime>
  ........
 &lt;/runtime>
 
 &lt;extension type="WorkspaceAccess" .............../>
 ...............
  &lt;toolbar id="SampleID" initialSide="NORTH" initialRow="1"/>
&lt;/plugin></codeblock></p>
            <p id="p_tf2_dgk_54b">The <xmlelement>toolbar</xmlelement> element adds a toolbar in the <ph
                keyref="product"/> interface and allows you to contribute your own
                <term>plugin</term>-specific actions. The following attributes are supported:<ul id="ul_uf2_dgk_54b">
                <li id="li_vf2_dgk_54b"><b>id</b> - Unique identifier for the toolbar.</li>
                <li id="li_wf2_dgk_54b"><b>initialSide</b> - Specifies the place where the toolbar is initially
                  displayed. The allowed values are <codeph>NORTH</codeph> and
                    <codeph>SOUTH</codeph>.</li>
                <li id="li_xf2_dgk_54b"><b>initialRow</b> - Specifies the initial row on the specified side where the
                  toolbar is displayed. For example, the first toolbar has an initial row of
                    <codeph>0</codeph> and the next toolbar has an initial row of
                  <codeph>1</codeph>.</li>
              </ul></p>
            <p id="p_yf2_dgk_54b">The <xref
                href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/exml/workspace/api/standalone/ToolbarInfo.html"
                format="html" scope="external"
                  ><term>ro.sync.exml.workspace.api.standalone.ToolbarInfo</term></xref> toolbar
              component information with the specified ID will be provided to you by the customizer
              interface. Therefore, you will be able to provide Swing components that will appear on
              the toolbar when the application starts.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_zf2_dgk_54b">
          <dt><b><term>addViewComponentCustomizer</term></b></dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_ag2_dgk_54b">Contributes to or modifies existing views, or contributes to the reserved custom
              view. You can specify additional view IDs in the associated
                <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath> descriptor using the following construct:
              <codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_bg2_dgk_54b">&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;!DOCTYPE plugin SYSTEM "../plugin.dtd">
&lt;plugin name="CustomWorkspaceAccess" ..............>
 &lt;runtime>
  ........
 &lt;/runtime>
 
 &lt;extension type="WorkspaceAccess" .............../>
 ...............
 &lt;view id="SampleID" initialSide="WEST" initialRow="0"/>
&lt;/plugin></codeblock></p>
            <p id="p_cg2_dgk_54b">The <xmlelement>view</xmlelement> element adds a view in the <ph keyref="product"/>
              interface and allows you to contribute your own <term>plugin</term>-specific UI
              components. The following attributes are supported:<ul id="ul_dg2_dgk_54b">
                <li id="li_eg2_dgk_54b"><b>id</b> - Unique identifier of the view component.</li>
                <li id="li_fg2_dgk_54b"><b>initialSide</b> - Specifies the place where the view is initially displayed.
                  The allowed values are: <codeph>NORTH</codeph>, <codeph>SOUTH</codeph>,
                    <codeph>EAST</codeph>, and <codeph>WEST</codeph>.</li>
                <li id="li_gg2_dgk_54b"><b>initialRow</b> - Specifies the initial row on the specified side where the
                  view is displayed. For example, in <ph keyref="product"/>, the <xref
                    href="using-the-project-view.dita#using-the-project-view"
                      ><uicontrol>Project</uicontrol> view</xref> has an initial row of
                    <codeph>0</codeph> and the <xref href="outliner-view.dita#outliner-view"
                      ><uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol> view</xref> has an initial row of
                    <codeph>1</codeph>. Both views are in the <option>WEST</option> part of the
                  workbench.</li>
                <li id="li_hg2_dgk_54b"><b>initialState</b> - Specifies the initial state of the view. The allows values
                  are: <codeph>hidden</codeph>, <codeph>docked</codeph>, <codeph>autohide</codeph>,
                  and <codeph>floating</codeph>. By default, the view is visible and docked.</li>
              </ul></p>
            <p id="p_ig2_dgk_54b">The <xmlelement>view</xmlelement> element also supports an optional
                <xmlelement>perspective</xmlelement> child element so that you can show or hide a
              certain view for a specified perspective. The <xmlelement>perspective</xmlelement>
              element supports the following attributes:<ul id="ul_j1m_kmy_jkb">
                <li id="li_jg2_dgk_54b"><b>id</b> (required) - Unique identifier for the perspective. The possible
                  values are: <codeph>editor</codeph>, <codeph>dita</codeph>, <ph
                    product="developer editor"><codeph>xslt_debugger</codeph>,
                      <codeph>xquery_debugger</codeph>,</ph> and <codeph>database</codeph>.</li>
                <li id="li_kg2_dgk_54b"><b>initState</b> (optional) - Specifies the initial state of the perspective.
                  The allows values are: <codeph>hidden</codeph>, <codeph>docked</codeph>,
                    <codeph>autohide</codeph>, and <codeph>floating</codeph>. By default, the view
                  is visible and docked.</li>
              </ul></p>
            <p id="p_lg2_dgk_54b">The <term>ro.sync.exml.workspace.api.standalone.ViewInfo</term>
              view component information with the specified ID will be provided to you by the
              customizer interface. Therefore, you will be able to provide Swing components that
              will appear on the view when the application starts.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_mg2_dgk_54b">
          <dt><b><term>addMenuBarCustomizer</term></b></dt>
          <dd>Contributes to or modifies existing menu components.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
    <p id="p_ng2_dgk_54b">Access to the open editors can be done by first getting access to all URLs
      opened in the workspace using the <term>StandalonePluginWorkspace.getAllEditorLocations(int
        editingArea)</term> API method. <ph product="author editor">There are two available editing
        areas: the <uicontrol>DITA Maps Manager</uicontrol> editing area and the main editing area.
      </ph>Using the URL of an open resource, you can gain access to it using the
        <term>StandalonePluginWorkspace.getEditorAccess(URL location, int editingArea)</term> API
      method. A <xref
        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/exml/workspace/api/editor/WSEditor.html"
        format="html" scope="external"
        ><term>ro.sync.exml.workspace.api.editor.WSEditor</term></xref> then allows access to the
      current editing page.</p>
    <p id="p_og2_dgk_54b">A special editing API is supported for the <b>Text</b> mode (<xref
        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/exml/workspace/api/editor/page/text/WSTextEditorPage.html"
        format="html" scope="external"
          ><term>ro.sync.exml.workspace.api.editor.page.text.WSTextEditorPage</term></xref>)<ph
        product="author  editor"> and the <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode (<xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/exml/workspace/api/editor/page/author/WSAuthorEditorPage.html"
          format="html" scope="external"
            ><term>ro.sync.exml.workspace.api.editor.page.author.WSAuthorEditorPage</term></xref>)</ph>.</p>
    <p id="p_pg2_dgk_54b">To be notified when editors are opened, selected, and closed, you can use
      the <term>StandalonePluginWorkspace.addEditorChangeListener</term> API method to add a
      listener.</p>
    <p id="p_qg2_dgk_54b"><b><u>Examples:</u></b>
      <ul id="ul_rg2_dgk_54b">
        <li id="li_sg2_dgk_54b">A simple Maven-based sample of a workspace access plugin is available here: <xref
            href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/sample-plugin-workspace-access" format="html"
            scope="external"/>.</li>
        <li id="li_tg2_dgk_54b">A more complex sample of a workspace access plugin mimicking a CMS integration is
          available in the Author SDK: <xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/oxygen_sdk.html"
            format="html" scope="external"/>.</li>
      </ul></p>
  </conbody>
</concept>
