<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="writer-helper-addon">
  <title>Writer Helper Add-on (Experimental)</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Add-ons<indexterm>Technical Writer Helper</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Technical Writer helper</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_kdh_dgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> offers an add-on that provides support for helping
      technical writers. Once the add-on is installed, you can use one of its available tabs to
      access the functionality.</p>
    <p id="p_ldh_dgk_54b">To install the add-on, follow these instructions:</p>
    <ol id="ol_r12_jyz_rmb">
      <li id="li_mdh_dgk_54b">Go to <menucascade>
          <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Install new add-ons</uicontrol>
        </menucascade> to open an add-on selection dialog box.</li>
      <li id="li_ndh_dgk_54b">Enter or paste <b>http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Addons/default/updateSite.xml</b>
        in the <b>Show add-ons from</b> field.</li>
      <li id="li_odh_dgk_54b">Select the <b>Writer Helper</b> add-on and click <b>Next</b>.</li>
      <li id="li_pdh_dgk_54b">Read the end-user license agreement. Then select the <uicontrol>I accept all terms of
        the end-user license agreement</uicontrol> option and click <uicontrol>Finish</uicontrol>.</li>
      <li id="li_qdh_dgk_54b">Restart <ph keyref="product"/>.</li>
    </ol>
    <section id="section_s12_jyz_rmb">
      <title>Review</title>
      <p>You can select folders or files in the <uicontrol>Project</uicontrol> view and start a
        review session for them. By default, the review is done in random order and all reviewed
        documents are opened with <i>change tracking</i> enabled. During the review process, you can
        see a list of already reviewed documents and check the status of your progress.</p>
      <p>This feature is useful for reviewing a set of documents.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_z2g_cjv_5qb">
      <title>Similar Content</title>
      <p>You can select folders or files in the <uicontrol>Project</uicontrol> view, then choose a
        list of elements to check for similarity. Once you start the <uicontrol>Find similar
          content</uicontrol> processing, information from all XML, HTML, and Markdown files is
        gathered to determine elements that have similar text content. Once the similar matches are
        presented, you can click on each of them to show a detailed list of places where the matches
        are found.</p>
      <p id="p_izh_qbn_2rb">If the <uicontrol>Show similar content for the current file</uicontrol>
        checkbox is enabled and the similar elements have been found, once you open a document, a
        results tab will show elements the current document has in common with all other documents
        that were analyzed.</p>
      <p>This feature is useful for finding possible elements that can be reused instead of being
        copy-pasted between documents. </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_byt_4jv_5qb">
      <title>Read Aloud</title>
      <p>Select content in the current document and use the <uicontrol>Play</uicontrol> button to
        listen to how it is read by an operating system-specific narrator.</p>
      <p>This feature is useful to review content by listening to it.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_o2b_5jv_5qb">
      <title>Tips</title>
      <p>You can view a list of editing tips, tuned for technical writers. Each tip might also have
        a <uicontrol>Mode details</uicontrol> link to open the <ph keyref="product"/> user
        guide.</p>
      <p>This feature is useful for discovering productivity tips for making your editing experience
        more efficient and productive.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
