<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="Writing-Java-Extensions-for-DITA">
  <title>Writing Java Extensions for DITA</title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_zdt_dgk_54b">Although most of the editor configuration for a specific document type can be done using
      configuration files, for some of the most advanced customization requirements, you need to
      write <xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-editor/topics/dg-extensions-bundle.html"
        format="html" scope="external">Java extensions</xref>.</p>
    <p id="p_a2t_dgk_54b">Such Java extensions can be registered using the <xref
        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-editor/topics/the-document-type-dialog.html"
        format="html" scope="external">Document Type Configuration dialog box</xref>. When extending
      a framework that already has Java extensions registered (such as DITA), you want to inherit
      the behavior of the extensions from the base framework.</p>
    <p id="p_b2t_dgk_54b">Suppose you want to register an <codeph>AuthorReferenceResolver</codeph> subclass called
        <codeph>MyConrefResolver</codeph>. Here are the required steps:</p>
    <p id="p_c2t_dgk_54b">
      <ol id="ol_jv5_vqj_mmb">
        <li id="li_d2t_dgk_54b">Create a Maven project that have access to the Oxygenxml Maven
          Repository by following the procedure from the <xref scope="external" format="html"
            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/oxygen_sdk/download.html">Oxygen SDK</xref> page:</li>
        <li>Add dependencies to <codeph>oxygen-sdk</codeph> and
          <codeph>framework-dita</codeph>:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_e2t_dgk_54b">&lt;dependency>
      &lt;groupId>com.oxygenxml&lt;/groupId>
      &lt;artifactId>oxygen-sdk&lt;/artifactId>
      &lt;version>${oxygen.sdk.version}&lt;/version>
&lt;/dependency>
&lt;dependency>
      &lt;groupId>com.oxygenxml&lt;/groupId>
      &lt;artifactId>oxygen-jars&lt;/artifactId>
      &lt;classifier>framework-dita&lt;/classifier>
      &lt;version>${oxygen.sdk.version}&lt;/version>
      &lt;exclusions>
        &lt;exclusion>
          &lt;groupId>*&lt;/groupId>
          &lt;artifactId>*&lt;/artifactId>
        &lt;/exclusion>
      &lt;/exclusions>
&lt;/dependency></codeblock></li>
        <li id="li_f2t_dgk_54b">Create a <codeph>MyConrefResolver.java</codeph> Java source file that contains your
          reference resolver implementation. To inherit the default behavior for resolving
          references, this class should extend the default reference resolver implementation for
          DITA: <codeph>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.dita.conref.DITAConRefResolver</codeph>. You can
          then override some of the methods according to your
              needs.<note id="note_g2t_dgk_54b"><codeph>DITAConRefResolver</codeph> has only one non-deprecated
            constructor, which receives a
              <codeph>ro.sync.ecss.dita.ContextKeyManagerProvider</codeph> parameter.</note></li>
        <li id="li_h2t_dgk_54b">Create a <codeph>MyDITAExtensionsBundle</codeph> Java source file that extends
            <codeph>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.dita.DITAExtensionsBundle</codeph>. Override the
            <codeph>createAuthorReferenceResolver</codeph> method to return an instance of
            <codeph>MyConrefResolver</codeph> passing the <codeph>keyManagerProvider</codeph> field
          of the base class to the constructor.<note id="note_i2t_dgk_54b">The <codeph>MyConrefResolver</codeph> can also
            be specified as an extension directly in the Document Type Configuration dialog box.
            However, if specified directly, the default constructor will be used. In the case of the
              <codeph>DITAConRefResolver</codeph>, this causes keys to not be resolved in Web
            Author.</note></li>
        <li id="li_j2t_dgk_54b">Create a JAR file with your compiled Java classes and add it to your
          framework's classpath using the Document Type Configuration dialog box. You can create the
          JAR from your IDE or with Maven by running <codeph>mvn clean package</codeph> and the JAR
          will be created in <codeph>target</codeph> directory.</li>
      </ol>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
