<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="wsdl-contextual-editing">
  <title>Modular Contextual WSDL Editing Using 'Main Files' Support</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>WSDL documents<indexterm>Editing in Main Files context</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_mrd_cgk_54b">Smaller interrelated modules that define a complex WSDL structure cannot be correctly edited
      or validated individually, due to their interdependency with other modules. <ph
        keyref="product"/> provides the support for defining the main module (or modules), allowing
      you to edit any of the imported/included files in the context of the larger WSDL
      structure.</p>
    <p id="p_nrd_cgk_54b">You cat set a main WSDL document either using the <xref
        href="defining_main_files.dita#defining_main_files"><term>main files</term> support
        from the <uicontrol product="developer editor">Project</uicontrol><uicontrol
          product="developerEclipse editorEclipse">Project Explorer</uicontrol> view</xref>, or using a
      validation scenario.</p>
    <p id="p_ord_cgk_54b">To set a <term>main file</term> using a validation scenario, add validation units that
      point to the main modules. <ph keyref="product"/> warns you if the current module is not part
      of the dependencies graph computed for the main WSDL document. In this case, it considers the
      current module as the main WSDL document.</p>
    <p id="p_prd_cgk_54b">The advantages of editing in the context of a <xref keyref="glossentry_main-file"
          ><term>main file</term></xref> include: <ul id="ul_qrd_cgk_54b">
        <li id="li_rrd_cgk_54b">Correct validation of a module in the context of a larger WSDL structure.</li>
        <li id="li_srd_cgk_54b"><xref keyref="glossentry_content-completion-assistant"><term>Content Completion
              Assistant</term></xref> displays all components valid in the current context.</li>
        <li id="li_trd_cgk_54b">The <xref href="wsdl-outline-view.dita#wsdl-outline-view"><uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol>
            view</xref> displays the components collected from the entire WSDL structure.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <note type="note" id="note_urd_cgk_54b">When you edit an XML schema document that has a WSDL document set as the main file,
      the validation operation is performed over the main WSDL document.</note>
    <section id="section_csq_fw2_w5b">
      <title>Resources</title>
      <p id="p_vrd_cgk_54b">For more information about editing WSDL documents in the <term>main
          files</term> context, watch our video demonstration:</p>
      <p id="p_wrd_cgk_54b"><object width="450" height="250"
          data="https://www.youtube.com/embed/gn_YPD5xDCo" outputclass="iframe">
          <param name="allowfullscreen" value="true"/>
        </object></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
