<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="xhive-parser-configuration">
  <title><ph keyref="xhiveDB"/> Parser Configuration for
    Adding XML Instances</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Databases<indexterm>Connections<indexterm>Documentum xDB<indexterm>Parser
                configuration</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Documentum xDB database parser configuration</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>When an XML instance document is added to a <ph keyref="xhiveDB"/> connection or library, it
      is parsed with an internal XML parser of the database server. The following options are
      available for configuring this parser:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>DOM Level 3 parser configuration parameters. More about each parameter can be found here:
          <xref href="http://www.w3.org/TR/2004/REC-DOM-Level-3-Core-20040407/core.html#DOMConfiguration" scope="external" format="html">DOM Level 3 Configuration</xref>.</li>
      <li><ph keyref="xhiveDB"/> specific parser parameters (for more information, consult the <ph
          keyref="xhiveDB"/> manual): <ul>
          <li><uicontrol>xhive-store-schema</uicontrol> - If selected, the corresponding DTD or XML
            schemas are stored in the catalog during validated parsing.</li>
          <li><uicontrol>xhive-store-schema-only-internal-subset</uicontrol> - Stores only the
            internal sub-set of the document (not an external sub-set). This option modifies the
              <uicontrol>xhive-store-schema</uicontrol> (only has a function when that parameter is
            set to true, and when a DTD is involved). Select this option if you only want to store
            the internal sub-set of the document (not the external sub-set).</li>
          <li><uicontrol>xhive-ignore-catalog</uicontrol> - Ignores the corresponding DTD and XML
            schemas in the catalog during validated parsing.</li>
          <li><uicontrol>xhive-psvi</uicontrol> - Stores <b>psvi</b> information about elements and
            attributes. Documents parsed with this feature turned on give access to <b>psvi</b>
            information and enable support of data types by XQuery queries.</li>
          <li><uicontrol>xhive-sync-features</uicontrol> - With this convenience setting turned on,
            parameter settings of <apiname>XhiveDocumentIf</apiname> are synchronized with the
            parameter settings of <apiname>LSParser</apiname>. Note that parameter settings
              <uicontrol>xhive-psvi</uicontrol> and <uicontrol>schema-location</uicontrol> are
            always synchronized.</li>
        </ul></li>
    </ul>
  </body>
</topic>