<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="xml-contextual-editing">
  <title>Modular Contextual XML Editing Using 'Main Files' Support</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>XML documents<indexterm>Editing in Main Files context</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Modular XML files</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_wtz_bgk_54b">Smaller interrelated modules that define a complex XML modular structure cannot be correctly
      edited or validated individually, due to their interdependency with other modules. <ph
        keyref="product"/> provides the support for defining the main module (or modules), allowing
      you to edit any file from the hierarchy in the context of the <xref
        keyref="glossentry_main-file"><term>main files</term></xref>.</p>
    <p id="p_xtz_bgk_54b">You cat set a main XML document either using the <xref
        href="defining_main_files.dita#defining_main_files"><term>main files</term> support
        from the <uicontrol product="author developer editor">Project</uicontrol><ph
          product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">Project Explorer</ph> view</xref>, or
      using a validation scenario.</p>
    <p id="p_ytz_bgk_54b">To set a <term>main file</term> using a validation scenario, add validation units that
      point to the main modules. <ph keyref="product"/> warns you if the current module is not part
      of the dependencies graph computed for the main XML document. In this case, it considers the
      current module as the main XML document.</p>
    <p id="p_ztz_bgk_54b">The advantages of working with modular XML files in the context of a <xref
        keyref="glossentry_main-file"><term>main file</term></xref> include: <ul id="ul_a5z_bgk_54b">
        <li id="li_b5z_bgk_54b">Correct validation of a module in the context of a larger XML structure.</li>
        <li id="li_c5z_bgk_54b"><xref keyref="glossentry_content-completion-assistant"><term>Content Completion
              Assistant</term></xref> displays all collected entities and IDs starting from the
            <term>main files</term>.</li>
        <li id="li_d5z_bgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> uses the schema defined in the <term>main file</term> when you
          edit a module that is included in the hierarchy through the <i>External Entity</i>
          mechanism.</li>
        <li id="li_e5z_bgk_54b">The <term>main files</term> defined for the current module determines the <xref
            href="search-refactor-scope.dita">scope of the search and refactoring actions</xref> for
          ID/IDREFS values and for updating references when renaming/moving a resource. <ph
            keyref="product"/> performs the search and refactoring actions in the context that the
            <term>main files</term> determine, improving the speed of execution.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <section id="section_ah2_wv2_w5b">
      <title>Resources</title>
      <p id="p_f5z_bgk_54b">For more information about editing modular XML files in the <term>main
          files</term> context, watch our video demonstration:</p>
      <p id="p_g5z_bgk_54b"><object width="450" height="250"
          data="https://www.youtube.com/embed/e2oo4RWNxW8" outputclass="iframe">
          <param name="allowfullscreen" value="true"/>
        </object></p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
      <link href="defining_main_files.dita#defining_main_files"/>
      <link href="xml-resource-hierarchy-view.dita"/>
  </related-links>
</topic>
