<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="xml-schema-preferences-page">
  <title>XML Schema Preferences</title>
  <body>
    <p>To configure the <uicontrol>XML Schema</uicontrol> options, <ph
        conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to  <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>XML</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>XML Parser</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol> XML Schema</uicontrol>
      </menucascade>.</p>
    <p>This preferences page allows you to configure the following options:<dl>
        <dlentry id="default-schema-version">
          <dt><uicontrol>Default XML Schema version</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Allows you to select the version of W3C XML Schema to be used as the default. You can
            choose XML Schema <uicontrol>1.0</uicontrol> or XML Schema
              <uicontrol>1.1</uicontrol>.<note>You are also able to set the XML Schema version using
              the <uicontrol>Customize</uicontrol> option in the <xref keyref="wizard_new-document"
                  ><uicontrol>New</uicontrol> document wizard</xref>.</note></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Default XML Schema validation engine</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Allows you to select the default validation engine to be used for XML Schema. You can
            choose <uicontrol>Xerces</uicontrol> or <uicontrol>Saxon EE</uicontrol>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Xerces validation features</uicontrol> section</dt>
          <dd>
            <dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><uicontrol>Enable full schema constraint checking</uicontrol> (<xref
                    href="https://xerces.apache.org/xerces2-j/features.html#validation.schema-full-checking"
                    format="html" scope="external"
                      ><codeph>http://apache.org/xml/features/validation/schema-full-checking</codeph></xref>)</dt>
                <dd>Sets the <i>schema-full-checking</i> feature to <codeph>true</codeph>. This
                  enables a validation of the parsed XML document against a schema (W3C XML Schema
                  or DTD) while the document is parsed.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><uicontrol>Enable honour all schema location feature</uicontrol> (<xref
                    href="https://xerces.apache.org/xerces2-j/features.html#honour-all-schemaLocations"
                    format="html" scope="external"
                      ><codeph>http://apache.org/xml/features/honour-all-schema-location</codeph></xref>)</dt>
                <dd>Sets the <i>honour-all-schema-location</i> feature to <codeph>true</codeph>. All
                  the files that declare W3C XML Schema components from the same namespace are used
                  to compose the validation model. In case this option is disabled, only the first
                  W3C XML Schema file that is encountered in the XML Schema import tree is taken
                  into account.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><uicontrol>Enable full XPath 2.0 in assertions and alternative types</uicontrol>
                    (<xref href="https://xerces.apache.org/xerces2-j/features.html" format="html"
                    scope="external"
                      ><codeph>http://apache.org/xml/features/validation/cta-full-xpath-checking</codeph></xref>)</dt>
                <dd>When enabled (default value), you can use the full XPath support in assertions
                  and alternative types. Otherwise, only the XPath support offered by the Xerces
                  engine is available.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><uicontrol>Assertions can see comments and processing instructions</uicontrol>
                    (<xref href="https://xerces.apache.org/xerces2-j/features.html" format="html"
                    scope="external"
                      ><codeph>http://apache.org/xml/features/validation/assert-comments-and-pi-checking</codeph></xref>)</dt>
                <dd>Controls whether comments and processing instructions are visible to the XPath
                  expression used for defining an assertion in XSD 1.1. </dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Saxon EE validation features</uicontrol> section</dt>
          <dd>
            <dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><uicontrol>Multiple schema imports</uicontrol></dt>
                <dd>Forces <codeph>xs:import</codeph> to fetch the referenced schema document. By
                  default, the <codeph>xs:import</codeph> fetches the document only if no schema
                  document for the given namespace has already been loaded. With this option in
                  effect, the referenced schema document is loaded unless the absolute URI is the
                  same as a schema document already loaded.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><uicontrol>Assertions can see comments and processing
                  instructions</uicontrol></dt>
                <dd>Controls whether comments and processing instructions are visible to the XPath
                  expression used to define an assertion. By default (unlike Saxon 9.3), they are
                  not made visible.</dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </body>
</topic>
