<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="xpath-activation-expressions">
  <title>Controlling Which Author Operations Gets Executed Through XPath Expressions</title>
  <body>
    <p>An <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode action can have multiple operation modes, each one
      invoking an <ph product="developer developerEclipse">Author operation</ph><xref
        href="dg-default-author-operations.dita" product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse"
        >Author operation</xref> with certain configured parameters. Each operation mode has an
      XPath 2.0 expression for activating it.</p>
    <p>For each operation mode of an action, the application will check if the XPath expression is
      fulfilled (when it returns a non-empty node set or a <b>true</b> result). Only the first
      operation whose XPath operation is fulfilled will be executed.</p>
    <p>The following special XPath extension functions are provided:<ul>
        <li><xref href="oxy-allows-child-element.dita#oxy-allows-child-element"
              ><i>oxy:allows-child-element()</i></xref> - Use this function to check whether or not
          an element is valid child element in the current context, according to the associated
          schema.</li>
        <li><xref href="oxy-allows-global-element.dita#oxy-allows-global-element"
              ><i>oxy:allows-global-element()</i></xref> - Use this function to check whether or not
          an element is a valid global element for the current <xref keyref="glossentry_framework"
              ><term>framework</term></xref>, according to the associated schema.</li>
        <li><xref href="oxy-current-selected-element.dita#oxy-current-selected-element"
              ><i>oxy:current-selected-element()</i></xref> - Use this function to get the currently
          selected element.</li>
        <li><xref href="oxy-selected-elements.dita"><i>oxy:selected-elements()</i></xref> - Use this
          function to get the selected elements.</li>
        <li><xref href="oxy-is-required-element.dita#oxy-is-required-element"
              ><i>oxy:is-required-element()</i></xref> - Use this function to check if the element
          returned by the given XPath expression is required (based on the rules declared in the
          schema).</li>
        <li><xref href="oxy-platform.dita"><i>oxy:platform()</i></xref> - Use this function to get
          the current platform in cases where you want to enable or disable an action depending on
          the platform. Possible values include: <term>eclipse</term>, <term>standalone</term> and
            <term>webapp</term>.</li>
      </ul></p>
  </body>
</topic>
