<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="xproc-transformation-parameters-tab">
  <title>Parameters Tab (XProc Transformations)</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>XProc transformation scenario<indexterm>Parameters tab</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_l1m_cgk_54b"><ph
        conkeyref="reusables-transforming-documents/intro-for-transformation-tabs"/><note
        id="note_vvr_ckg_tfc" type="notice">This tab is not available for XProc 3.0, since that
        version does not use parameters.</note></p>
    <p id="p_m1m_cgk_54b">The <uicontrol>Parameters</uicontrol> tab presents a list of ports and parameters collected
      from the XProc script. The tab is divided into three sections:<dl id="dl_n1m_cgk_54b">
        <dlentry id="dlentry_o1m_cgk_54b">
          <dt><i>List of Ports</i></dt>
          <dd>In this section, you can use the <uicontrol>New</uicontrol> and
              <uicontrol>Delete</uicontrol> buttons to add or remove ports.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_p1m_cgk_54b">
          <dt><i>List of Parameters</i></dt>
          <dd>This section presents a list of parameters for each port and includes columns for the
            parameter name, namespace URI, and its value. Use the <uicontrol>Filter</uicontrol> text
            box to search for a specific term in the entire parameters collection. You can use the
              <uicontrol>New</uicontrol> and <uicontrol>Delete</uicontrol> buttons to add or remove
            parameters. You can edit the value of each cell in this table by double-clicking the
            cell. You can also sort the parameters by clicking the column headers.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_q1m_cgk_54b">
          <dt><i>Editor Variable Information</i></dt>
          <dd>The <xref href="editor-variables.dita">built-in editor variables</xref> and <xref
              href="custom-editor-variables.dita">custom editor variables</xref> can be used for
            specifying the URI. The message pane at the bottom of the dialog box provides more
            information about the editor variables that can be used. </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
  </body>
</topic>
