<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="xquery-unit-test-xspec">
    <title>XQuery Unit Test (XSpec)</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>XQuery<indexterm>Unit test (XSpec)</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
    <body>
    <p conkeyref="reusables-editing-documents/xspec-p-1" id="p_qfh_cgk_54b"/>
    <section id="creating_an_xslt_unit_test">
      <title>Creating an XQuery Unit Test</title>
      <p id="p_rfh_cgk_54b">To create a XQuery Unit Test, go to <menucascade>
          <uicontrol>File</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>New</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>XQuery Unit Test</uicontrol>
        </menucascade>. This is simple document template to help you get started.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="running_an_xslt_unit_test">
      <title>Running an XQuery Unit Test</title>
      <p conkeyref="reusables-editing-documents/xspec-p-2" id="p_sfh_cgk_54b"/>
    </section>
    <section id="testing_a_stylesheet">
      <title>Testing an XQuery file</title>
      <p id="p_tfh_cgk_54b">An XSpec file contains one or more test scenarios. </p>
      <p id="p_ufh_cgk_54b"><u><b>Example</b></u></p>
      <p id="p_vfh_cgk_54b">Suppose you have this XQuery function that takes a string as its
        argument. The first character of the string passed to the function is capitalized and
        concatenated to the rest of the string. Finally, the new string with the first character
        capitalized is returned to the calling
        method.<codeblock outputclass="language-xquery" id="codeblock_wfh_cgk_54b">module namespace functx = "http://www.functx.com";

declare function functx:capitalize-first
($arg as xs:string?) as xs:string? {

concat(upper-case(substring($arg, 1, 1)),
substring($arg, 2))
};</codeblock></p>
      <p id="p_xfh_cgk_54b">The XSpec test invokes the XQuery function and passes the string
          <codeph>hello</codeph> as parameter. The expected value that should be returned by the
        function (the string <codeph>Hello</codeph>) is contained in the <codeph>@select</codeph>
        attribute of the <codeph>x:expect</codeph>
        element.<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_yfh_cgk_54b">&lt;x:scenario label="Calling function capitalize-first">
  &lt;x:call function="functx:capitalize-first">
    &lt;x:param select="'hello'"/>
  &lt;/x:call>
  
  &lt;x:expect label="should capitalize the first character of the string" select="'Hello'"/>
  
&lt;/x:scenario></codeblock></p>
      <p id="p_bgh_cgk_54b">For more details about how to write XQuery tests and various samples,
        see <xref
          href="https://github.com/xspec/xspec/wiki/Getting-Started-with-XSpec-and-XQuery"
          format="html" scope="external"/>.</p>
    </section>
    </body>
</topic>
