<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="xquery-debugging-with-marklogic">
  <title>Debugging with MarkLogic</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Databases<indexterm>Connections<indexterm>MarkLogic<indexterm>Debugging</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Databases<indexterm>XQuery<indexterm>Debugging<indexterm>MarkLogic</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>MarkLogic debugging</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> includes support for debugging XQuery transformations that are
      executed against a MarkLogic database.</p>
    <p>To use a debugging session against the MarkLogic engine, follow these steps:<ol>
        <li>Configure a <xref href="../tasks/configure-marklogic-datasource.dita">MarkLogic data
            source</xref> and a <xref href="../tasks/configure-marklogic-connection.dita">MarkLogic
            connection</xref>.</li>
        <li>Make sure that the debugging support is enabled in the MarkLogic server that <ph
            keyref="product"/> accesses. On the server side, debugging must be activated in the XDBC
          server and in the <i>Task Server</i> section of the server control console (the switch
            <i>debug allow</i>). If the debugging is not activated, the MarkLogic server reports a
            <msgph>DBG-TASKDEBUGALLOW</msgph> error.<note>An XDBC application server must be running
            to connect to the MarkLogic server and this XDBC server will be used to process XQuery
            expressions against the server. You can change the XDBC application server that <ph
              keyref="product"/> uses to process XQuery expressions by selecting the <xref
              href="marklogic-contextual-actions.dita#marklogic-contextual-actions/use-it-to-execute-xquery"
                ><uicontrol>Use it to execute queries</uicontrol> action</xref> from the contextual
            menu in the <xref
              href="../topics/relational-database-explorer.dita#relational-database-explorer"
                ><uicontrol>Data Source Explorer</uicontrol> view</xref>.</note></li>
        <li>Open the XQuery file and start the debugging process.<ul>
            <li>If you want to debug an XQuery file stored on the MarkLogic server, we recommend you
              to use the <xref href="relational-database-explorer.dita#relational-database-explorer"
                  ><uicontrol>Data Source Explorer</uicontrol> view</xref> and open the file from
              the application server that is involved in the debugging process. This improves the
              resolving of any imported modules.</li>
            <li>The MarkLogic XQuery debugger integrates seamlessly into the <xref
                href="xquery-debugger-perspective.dita">XQuery Debugger
                <term>perspective</term></xref>. If you have a MarkLogic validation scenario
              configured for the XQuery file, you can choose to <xref
                href="../tasks/steps-in-typical-debug-process.dita">debug the scenario</xref>
              directly.</li>
            <li>Otherwise, switch to the <uicontrol>XQuery Debugger</uicontrol>
              <xref keyref="glossentry_perspective"><term>perspective</term></xref>, open the XQuery
              file in the editor, and select the MarkLogic connection in the XQuery engine selector
              from the <xref href="debug-control-toolbar.dita">debug control toolbar</xref>.<p>For general information about how a debugging session is started and controlled, see the <xref
                  href="../tasks/steps-in-typical-debug-process.dita">Working with the
                  Debugger</xref> section.<note product="developerEclipse editorEclipse">Before
                  starting a debugging session, it is recommend that you link the MarkLogic
                  connection with an Eclipse project. To do this, go to the <xref
                    href="../topics/relational-database-explorer.dita#relational-database-explorer"
                      ><uicontrol>Data Source Explorer</uicontrol> view</xref> and select
                    <uicontrol>Link to project</uicontrol> in the contextual menu of the MarkLogic
                  connection. The major benefit of linking a debugging session with a project is
                  that you can <xref
                    href="../tasks/inserting-breakpoints.dita#inserting-breakpoints">add
                      <term>breakpoints</term></xref> in the XQuery modules stored on the server.
                  You are also able to access these modules from the Eclipse
                    <uicontrol>Navigator</uicontrol> view and run debugging sessions from
                  them.</note></p></li>
          </ul></li>
      </ol></p>
    <p>In a MarkLogic debugging session, you can use step actions and <xref
        href="using-breakpoints.dita#using-breakpoints"><term>breakpoints</term></xref> to help
      identify problems. When you <xref
        href="../tasks/inserting-breakpoints.dita#inserting-breakpoints">add a
          <term>breakpoint</term></xref> on a line where the debugger never stops, <ph
        keyref="product"/> displays a warning message. These warnings are displayed for
        <term>breakpoints</term> you add either in the main XQuery (which you can open locally or
      from the server) or for <term>breakpoints</term> you add in any XQuery that is opened from the
      connection that participates in the debugging session. For more information, see <xref
        href="xquery-debugging-marklogic-import-modules.dita#xquery-debugging-marklogic-import-modules"
      />.</p>
    <section id="remote_debugging_with_marklogic">
      <title>Remote Debugging with MarkLogic</title>
      <p><ph keyref="product"/> allows you to debug remote applications that use XQuery (for
        example, web applications that trigger XQuery executions). <ph keyref="product"/> connects
        to a MarkLogic server, shows you the running XQuery scripts and allows you to debug them.
        You can even pause the scripts so that you can start the debugging queries in the exact
        context of the application. You can also switch a server to debug mode to intercept all
        XQuery scripts.</p>
      <p><ph keyref="product"/> also supports collaborative debugging. This feature allows multiple
        users to participate in the same debugging session. You can start a debugging session and at
        a certain point, another user can continue it.</p>
      <note type="important">When using the remote debugging feature, the HTTP and the XDBC servers
        involved in the debugging session must have the same module configuration.</note>
    </section>
    <p>To watch our video demonstration about the XQuery debugger for MarkLogic, go to <xref
        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/demo/XQueryDebuggerforMarkLogic.html" format="html"
        scope="external"/>.</p>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="marklogic-development.dita#marklogic-development"/>
      <link href="how-to-marklogic.dita#how-to-marklogic"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
