<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="xquery-pretty-print">
  <title>Formatting and Indenting XQuery Documents</title>
  <body>
    <p>Editing XQuery documents may lead to large chunks of content that is not easily readable by
      human audience. Also, each developer may have a particular way of writing XQuery code. <ph
        keyref="product"/> assists you in maintaining a consistent code writing style by providing
      the <uicontrol>Format and Indent</uicontrol> action.</p>
    <p>The <uicontrol>Format and Indent</uicontrol> action achieves this by performing the following
        steps:<ul id="ul_emx_nnj_4r">
        <li>manages whitespaces, by collapsing or inserting space characters where needed.</li>
        <li>formats complex expressions on multiple, more readable lines by properly indenting each
          of them. The amount of whitespaces that form an indent unit is controlled through one of
          the <uicontrol>Indent with tabs</uicontrol> and <uicontrol>Indent size</uicontrol> options
          from the <xref href="preferences-editor-format.dita#preferences-editor-format"
              ><uicontrol>Format Preferences</uicontrol> page</xref>.</li>
      </ul><note>These operations can be performed only if your XQuery document conforms with W3C
        XQuery 1.0, XQuery Update Facility 1.0, and XQuery 3.0 specifications. If the
          <uicontrol>Format and Indent</uicontrol> operation fails, the document is left unaltered
        and an error message is presented in the <uicontrol>Results</uicontrol> view.</note></p>
    <p>The <uicontrol>Format and Indent</uicontrol> action is available in the <menucascade>
        <uicontrol>Document</uicontrol>
        <uicontrol>Source</uicontrol>
      </menucascade> menu and also on the toolbar.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
