<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="xquery-transformation-output-tab">
  <title>The Output Tab</title>
  <body>
    <p>The <uicontrol>Output</uicontrol> tab contains the following tab:<ul>
        <li><ph id="prompt-for-file"><uicontrol>Prompt for file</uicontrol> - At the end of the
            transformation a file browser dialog is displayed for specifying the path and name of
            the file which stores the transformation result</ph>.</li>
        <li><ph id="output-tab-save-as"><uicontrol>Save As</uicontrol> - The path of the file where
            the transformation result are stored. The path can include <xref
              href="editor-variables.dita">special <ph
                keyref="product"/> editor
              variables</xref> or <xref href="custom-editor-variables.dita">custom editor
              variables</xref></ph>.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Open in Browser/System Application</uicontrol> - If enabled, <ph
            keyref="product"/> opens the
          transformation result automatically, in a system application associated with the type of
          the result (HTML/XHTML, PDF, text) file.<note><ph>If you already set the
                <uicontrol>Default Internet browser</uicontrol> option in the
                <uicontrol>Global</uicontrol> preferences page, it takes precedence over the default
              system application settings.</ph></note><note
            product="editorEclipse authorEclipse developerEclipse">Go to <menucascade>
              <uicontrol>Window</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>General</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Web Browser</uicontrol>
            </menucascade> to set the web browser that is used for displaying HTML/XHTML
            pages.</note></li>
        <li><ph id="output-tab-saved-file"><uicontrol>Saved file</uicontrol> - When <uicontrol>Open
              in Browser/System Application</uicontrol> is selected this button can be used to
            specify that <ph keyref="product"/>
            should open automatically at the end of the transformation the file specified in the
              <uicontrol>Save As</uicontrol> text field</ph>.</li>
        <li><ph id="outpu-tab-other-location"><uicontrol>Other location</uicontrol> - When
              <uicontrol>Open in System Application</uicontrol> is selected, this button can be used
            to specify that <ph keyref="product"/>
            should not open the file specified in the <uicontrol>Save As</uicontrol> text field, it
            should open the file specified in the text field of the <uicontrol>Other
              location</uicontrol> radio button. The file path can include <xref
              href="editor-variables.dita">special <ph
                keyref="product"/> editor
              variables</xref> or <xref href="custom-editor-variables.dita">custom editor
              variable</xref></ph>.</li>
        <li><ph id="output-tab-open-in-editor"><uicontrol>Open in editor</uicontrol> - When this is
            enabled, the transformation result set in the <uicontrol>Save As</uicontrol> field is
            opened in a new editor panel with the appropriate built-in editor type: if the result is
            an XML file it is opened with the built-in XML editor, if it is an XSL-FO file it is
            opened with the built-in FO editor, and so on</ph>.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Show As XHTML</uicontrol> - It is enabled only when <uicontrol>Open in
            browser</uicontrol> is disabled. If this is checked, <ph
            keyref="product"/> displays the
          transformation result in a built-in XHTML browser panel at the bottom of the application
            window.<note type="important">When transforming very large documents, you should be
            aware that enabling this feature results in a very long time necessary for rendering the
            transformation result in the XHTML result viewer panel. This drawback appears due to the
            built-in Java XHTML browser implementation. In these cases, if you wish to see the XHTML
            result of the transformation, you should use an external browser by checking the
              <uicontrol>Open in browser</uicontrol> option.</note></li>
        <li><ph id="output-tab-show-as-xml"><uicontrol>Show As XML</uicontrol> - If this is checked
              <ph keyref="product"/> displays the
            transformation result in an XML viewer panel at the bottom of the application window
            with <xref href="preferences-colors-sh.dita">syntax highlight</xref> specific for XML
            documents</ph>.</li>
        <li product="editor author developer"><ph id="output-tab-show-as-svg"><uicontrol>Show As
              SVG</uicontrol> - If this is checked <ph
              keyref="product"/> displays the
            transformation result in an SVG viewer panel at the bottom of the application window by
            rendering the result as an SVG image</ph>.</li>
        <li><ph id="image-urls-are-relative-to"><uicontrol>Image URLs are relative to</uicontrol> -
            If <uicontrol>Show As XHTML</uicontrol> is checked this text field specifies the path
            used to resolve image paths contained in the transformation result</ph>.</li>
      </ul></p>
  </body>
</topic>
