<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="xslt-contextual-editing">
  <title>Modular Contextual XSLT Editing Using 'Main Files' Support </title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>XSLT<indexterm>Editing in Main Files context</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p id="p_fp1_cgk_54b">Smaller interrelated modules that define a complex stylesheet cannot be correctly edited or
      validated individually, due to their interdependency with other modules. For example, a
      function defined in a main stylesheet is not visible when you edit an included or imported
      module. <ph keyref="product"/> provides the support for defining the main module (or modules),
      allowing you to edit any of the imported/included files in the context of the larger
      stylesheet structure.</p>
    <p id="p_gp1_cgk_54b">You cat set a main XSLT stylesheet <ph>either using the <xref
          href="defining_main_files.dita#defining_main_files"><term>main files</term> support
          from the <uicontrol product="developer editor">Project</uicontrol><uicontrol
            product="developerEclipse editorEclipse">Project Explorer</uicontrol> view</xref>, or</ph>
      using a validation scenario.</p>
    <p id="p_hp1_cgk_54b">To set a <term>main file</term> using a validation scenario, add validation units that
      point to the main modules. <ph keyref="product"/> warns you if the current module is not part
      of the dependencies graph computed for the main stylesheet. In this case, it considers the
      current module as the main stylesheet.</p>
    <p id="p_ip1_cgk_54b">The advantages of editing in the context of <xref keyref="glossentry_main-file"
          ><term>main file</term></xref> include: <ul id="ul_jp1_cgk_54b">
        <li id="li_kp1_cgk_54b">Correct validation of a module in the context of a larger stylesheet structure.</li>
        <li id="li_lp1_cgk_54b"><xref keyref="glossentry_content-completion-assistant"><term>Content Completion
              Assistant</term></xref> displays all components valid in the current context.</li>
        <li id="li_mp1_cgk_54b">The <xref href="xslt-outline.dita#xslt-outline"><uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol>
            view</xref> displays the components collected from the entire stylesheet structure.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <section id="section_atb_2v2_w5b">
      <title>Resources</title>
      <p id="p_np1_cgk_54b">For more information about editing XSLT stylesheets in the <term>main
          files</term> context, watch our video demonstration:</p>
      <p id="p_op1_cgk_54b"><object width="450" height="250"
          data="https://www.youtube.com/embed/UZwg385RKNw" outputclass="iframe">
          <param name="allowfullscreen" value="true"/>
        </object></p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="xslt-hierarchy-view.dita"/>
      <link href="xslt-component-dependencies.dita"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
