<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="XSLT-Stylesheet-documentation-support">
  <title>XSLT Stylesheet Component Documentation Support</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>XSLT<indexterm>Component documentation</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> offers built-in support for documenting XSLT stylesheets. If the
      expanded <xref keyref="glossentry_qname"><term>QName</term></xref> of the element has a
      non-null namespace URI, the <codeph>xsl:stylesheet</codeph> element may contain any element
      not from the XSLT namespace. Such elements are referenced as user-defined data elements. Such
      elements can contain the documentation for the stylesheet and its elements (top-level elements
      whose names are in the XSLT namespace). <ph keyref="product"/> offers its own XML schema that
      defines such documentation elements. The schema is named
        <filepath>stylesheet_documentation.xsd</filepath> and can be found in <filepath><term
          conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
        />/frameworks/stylesheet_documentation</filepath>. The user can also specify a custom schema
      in <xref href="preferences-content-completion-xsl.dita">XSL Content Completion
      options</xref>.</p>
    <section id="content_completion">
      <title>Content Completion</title>
      <p>When content completion is invoked inside an XSLT editor by pressing <uicontrol
          conkeyref="reusable-oxygen-shortcuts-list/ctrl_space"/>, it offers elements from the XSLT
        documentation schema (either the built-in one or one specified by user). </p>
    </section>
    <section id="adding_documentation_blocks">
      <title>Adding Documentation Blocks</title>
      <p>In <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode, to add documentation blocks, press <uicontrol
          conkeyref="reusable-oxygen-shortcuts-list/ctrl_alt_d"/> or select <uicontrol>Add component
          documentation</uicontrol> from the contextual menu.</p>
      <p product="editor editorEclipse">In <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode, the following
        stylesheet documentation actions are available in the contextual menu, <uicontrol>Component
          Documentation</uicontrol> submenu:<ul>
          <li><uicontrol>Add component documentation</uicontrol> - Adds documentation blocks for the
            component at cursor position.</li>
          <li><uicontrol>Paragraph</uicontrol> - Inserts a new documentation paragraph.</li>
          <li><uicontrol>Bold</uicontrol> - Makes the selected documentation text bold.</li>
          <li><uicontrol>Italic</uicontrol> - Makes the selected documentation text italic.</li>
          <li><uicontrol>List</uicontrol> - Inserts a new list.</li>
          <li><uicontrol>List Item</uicontrol> - Inserts a list item.</li>
          <li><uicontrol>Reference</uicontrol> - Inserts a documentation reference.</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p>If the cursor is positioned inside the <codeph>xsl:stylesheet</codeph> element context,
        documentation blocks are generated for all XSLT elements. If the cursor is positioned inside
        a specific XSLT element (such as a template or function), a documentation block is generated
        for that element only.</p>
      <p><b><u>Example: Documentation Block Using <ph keyref="product"/> Built-in
        Schema</u></b><codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;xd:doc&gt;
  &lt;xd:desc&gt;
    &lt;xd:p&gt;Search inside parameter &lt;xd:i&gt;string&lt;/xd:i&gt; 
        for the last occurrence of parameter
    &lt;xd:i&gt;searched&lt;/xd:i&gt;. The substring starting from the 0 position
        to the identified last occurrence will be returned. 
    &lt;xd:ref name="f:substring-after-last" type="function" 
        xmlns:f="http://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/xsl/functions"&gt;See also
    &lt;/xd:ref&gt;
    &lt;/xd:p&gt;
  &lt;/xd:desc&gt;
  &lt;xd:param name="string"&gt;
    &lt;xd:p&gt;String to be analyzed&lt;/xd:p&gt;
    &lt;/xd:param&gt;
  &lt;xd:param name="searched"&gt;
    &lt;xd:p&gt;Marker string. Its last occurrence will be identified&lt;/xd:p&gt;
    &lt;/xd:param&gt;
  &lt;xd:return&gt;
    &lt;xd:p&gt;A substring starting from the beginning of &lt;xd:i&gt;string&lt;/xd:i&gt;
        to the last occurrence of &lt;xd:i&gt;searched&lt;/xd:i&gt;. 
        If no occurrence is found an empty string will be returned.
    &lt;/xd:p&gt;
  &lt;/xd:return&gt;
&lt;/xd:doc&gt;</codeblock></p>
    </section>
    <section id="xslt_documentation_links">
      <title>XSLT Documentation Links</title>
      <p><ph keyref="product"/> includes support for links inside XSLT documentation blocks. Using a
        construct like  <codeph>&lt;xd:a docid="user-defined-id">TEXT&lt;/xd:a></codeph> will cause
        the browser to scroll to the particular anchor (the defined ID) in the current document.
        Using a construct like  <codeph>&lt;xd:a
          href="http://www.my-web-site">TEXT&lt;/xd:a></codeph> or <codeph>&lt;xd:a
          href="local-file-path/filename">TEXT&lt;/xd:a></codeph> will open the referenced link in a
        new tab.</p>
      <p><b><u>Example: Documentation Links</u></b></p>
      <p>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;xd:doc xmlns:xd="http://www.oxygenxml.com/ns/doc/xsl" id="thisDoc">
   &lt;xd:desc>
      &lt;xd:p>
         &lt;xd:ref name="test" type="variable">My test variable&lt;/xd:ref>
            &lt;xd:a docid="thisDoc">Link to this documentation, see 
the the id="thisDoc" above&lt;/xd:a>
            &lt;xd:a docid="otherDocID" href="included.xsl">Link to 
otherDocID defined in included.xsl&lt;/xd:a>
      &lt;/xd:p>
   &lt;/xd:desc>
&lt;/xd:doc></codeblock>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist><title>Related Information:</title><link href="documentation-XSLT-Stylesheet.dita"/></linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
