<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="xspec-helper-view-addon">
  <title>XSpec Helper View Add-on</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Add-ons<indexterm>XSpec Helper View</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>XSpec Helper View add-on</indexterm>
        <indexterm>XSpec Test Results view</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> offers an add-on that contributes an <uicontrol>XSpec Test
        Results</uicontrol> view that provides the ability to run XSpec test scenarios and view the
      results directly in the application.</p>
    <p>To install it the add-on, follow these instructions:<ol>
        <li>Go to <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Install new add-ons</uicontrol>
          </menucascade> to open an add-on selection dialog box.</li>
        <li>Enter or paste
            <b>https://raw.githubusercontent.com/xspec/oXygen-XML-editor-xspec-support/master/build/update_site.xml</b>
          in the <uicontrol>Show add-ons from</uicontrol> field.</li>
        <li>Select the <b>XSpec Helper View</b> add-on and click <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol>.</li>
        <li>Select the <b>I accept all terms of the end user license agreement</b> option and click
            <uicontrol>Finish</uicontrol>.</li>
        <li>Restart the application.</li>
      </ol></p>
    <p><b>Result:</b> An <uicontrol>XSpec Run</uicontrol> button is now available on the toolbar in
        <ph keyref="product"/>. Click that button to open the <uicontrol>XSpec Test
        Results</uicontrol> view. At this point you can do the following:<ul>
        <li>Switch to the XSLT and use the <b>Run</b> buttons in this view to execute a particular
          scenario.</li>
        <li>For each test, there is also a <b>Show</b> button that selects the corresponding test in
          the main editing area.</li>
        <li>For failed tests, you can click that particular test to open a diff comparison between
          the expected and actual results.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>For more information, see the <xref
        href="https://github.com/xspec/oXygen-XML-editor-xspec-support" format="html"
        scope="external">details for this <b>Oxygen XSpec Helper View</b> add-on in
      GitHub</xref>.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
