<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_y1z_cc2_fmb">
    <title>Sharing a Link to a Document for Review</title>
    <body>
        <p>To collect feedback on some document, for example from a subject matter expert, you can
            share a link to the document with them. To this end you can copy the URL in the address
            bar of your browser and share it. </p>
        <section id="section_hp4_nd2_fmb">
            <title>Sharing the Context DITA Map</title>
            <p>If you share a DITA documents that uses keys, you may want to make sure that your
                collaborator will see the keys resolved to the same content. There are several
                approaches to ensure this:<ul id="ul_vgx_wf2_fmb">
                    <li>Instruct your collaborator to choose the correct map using the
                            <uicontrol>Show DITA Map view</uicontrol> button on the DITA
                        toolbar.</li>
                    <li>Use <xref
                            href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/web-author-sample-plugins/tree/master/web-author-impose-ditamap"
                            format="html" scope="external">the <b>Impose DITA Map</b> plugin </xref>
                        to automatically impose the correct DITA Map, so that you won't have to
                        construct the URL by hand before sharing.</li>
                    <li>Generate <xref
                            href="topics/webauthor-integrate-embedded-launch.dita#webauthor-integrate-embedded-launch/section_am5_hbq_1z"
                            >Oxygen XML WebHelp with edit links</xref> and share the link to the
                        generated HTML page. There will be an <uicontrol>Edit Online</uicontrol>
                        link near each topic title that has the correct DITA Map configured.</li>
                    <li>You can share the URL to the DITA Map directly. When opened in the editor,
                        the DITA Map contains references to topics.</li>
                    <li>Manually construct a <xref
                            href="topics/webauthor-integrate-embedded-launch.dita">shareable
                            URL</xref> that includes the DITA Map pre-set and share that
                        instead.</li>
                </ul></p>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
