<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="doc-rules">
  <title>oXygen Documentation Rules and Guidelines</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Documentation rules </indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <section>
      <title>Introduction</title>
      <p>The vast amount of rules that pertain to writing in the English language can be daunting,
        to say the least. There are also a lot of different opinions about which of those rules
        should be followed. There is a difference between the ability to speak in coherent and
        grammatically correct English and the ability to write effectively in English. Perhaps many
        of the common rules are not as important when it comes to verbal communication, but written
        documentation clearly needs to be consistent and follow a set of defined rules. It is also
        important to distinguish between concrete grammar rules that should always be followed and
        style rules that are simply guidelines or choices that will help make documentation to be
        more consistent and potent.</p>
      <p>As a general rule for writing technical documentation, it is important to keep it as simple
        as possible while using enough creativity and solid writing skills to keep the reader
        engaged long enough to absorb whatever information they need to satisfy the reason they
        found the particular documentation in the first place. All talented writers have developed
        their skill over the course of time by writing <i>A LOT</i>. However, following a set of
        rules and guidelines can help less experienced writers, as well as those without
        native-level language skills. Especially when documentation is written by multiple writers,
        it is important to have a common set of rules and guidelines to keep the documentation
        consistent, effective, and professional.</p>
    </section>
    <section><title>oXygen Documentation Rules</title>The rules, guidelines, and tips presented in
      this topic are meant to help maintain a high level of consistency, effectiveness, and accuracy
      within the documentation. This guide includes the following sections:<ul>
        <li><b><xref href="#doc-rules/grammar-rules-section" format="dita">Grammar Rules</xref></b>
          - This section contains grammar rules that should always be followed in any of the
          documentation.</li>
        <li><b><xref href="#doc-rules/ug-style-rules-section" format="dita">Style Rules for the User
              Guide</xref></b> - This section includes a variety of style rules that were chosen to
          serve as guidelines to maintain consistency and improve the overall usefulness of the User
          Guide.</li>
        <li><b><xref href="#doc-rules/website-style-rules-section" format="dita">Style Rules for the
              Website</xref></b> - This section includes some basic style rules for documenting the
          certain parts of the oXygen website.</li>
        <li><b><xref href="#doc-rules/writing-tips-section" format="dita">Writing Tips and
              Suggestions</xref></b> - This section includes numerous writing suggestions and tips
          (for both general and technical writing) that are meant to help content authors improve
          their writing skills.</li>
      </ul></section>
    <section id="grammar-rules-section"><title>Grammar Rules</title>This section includes some
      common concrete grammar rules that should always be followed when writing documentation.<p>
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Common Grammar Errors</dt>
            <dd>The following grammar errors are some of the most common mistakes that are made
              while writing in general:<p>
                <dl>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>Dangling Modifiers</dt>
                    <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Avoid <term>dangling modifiers</term> to ensure
                      descriptive words or phrases are clear.</dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b>Description:</b> This happens when a descriptive phrase does not apply
                        to the noun that immediately follows it. In other words, a word or phrase
                        that modifies a word not clearly stated in the sentence.</p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b><i>Example of an error:</i></b>
                        <i>Before performing the merge, the target item needs to be ready for the
                          operation.</i></p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b>Problem:</b> It is unclear what is "performing the merge". Is this
                        implying that the user is performing the merge, or is the "target item", or
                        maybe "the operation"?</p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b>Solution:</b> To fix this problem, try rearranging the structure of the
                        sentence or be more specific. <i>For example: Before you perform the merge,
                          make sure the target item is ready for the operation.</i></p>
                    </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>Incomplete Comparisons</dt>
                    <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Always complete comparisons.</dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b>Description:</b> When you are implying that something is being compared
                        to something else, you must always clarify what you are comparing it to.
                        Otherwise, it will be difficult for the reader to discern what the
                        comparison actually means.</p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b><i>Example of an error:</i></b>
                        <i>Our software is more powerful and efficient.</i></p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b>Problem:</b> The software is more powerful and efficient <b>than
                          what</b>?</p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b>Solution:</b> Simply finish the comparison. <i>For example: Our software
                          is more powerful and efficient than all other XML editors.</i></p>
                    </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>Misusing Homonyms</dt>
                    <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Be careful with <term>homonyms</term> since spell
                      checkers will not detect them and avoid using them if you are unsure of which
                      one to use.</dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b>Description:</b> It is impossible for spell checkers to detect misused
                        homonyms. A <term>homonym</term> is a word that is spelled the same way as
                        another word but has a different meaning.</p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b><i>Examples of homonyms:</i></b>
                        <i>"affect"/"effect"</i>, <i>"illicit"/"elicit"</i>,
                          <i>"complement"/"compliment"</i>, <i>"obtain"/"attain"</i>,
                          <i>"personal"/"personnel"</i>, <i>"suit"/"suite"</i>,
                          <i>"principal"/"principle"</i>, <i>"write"/"right"</i></p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b>Problem:</b> The obvious problem with misusing homonyms is that your
                        content will have unintended meaning.</p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b>Solution:</b> Since spell checkers will not detect misused homonyms, you
                        need to proofread your work carefully. Also, if you are not completely sure
                        about the difference between certain homonyms, avoid using those words
                        entirely.</p>
                    </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>Sentence Fragments</dt>
                    <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Avoid sentence fragments by realizing that every
                      sentence must express a complete thought.</dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b>Description:</b> Quite simply, a <term>sentence fragment</term> is a
                        piece of a sentence that is disconnected from the main clause and cannot
                        stand by itself as a complete sentence.</p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b><i>Example:</i></b>
                        <i>Because the URL alone might point to a different item than the one you
                          want and a peg revision is needed.</i></p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b>Problem:</b> This fragment does not express a complete thought. The
                        subordinating conjunction <i>"because"</i> is dependent upon an independent
                        clause that is missing in this sentence fragment.</p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b>Solution:</b> Every sentence must have at least one main clause and
                        express a complete thought. It is important to proofread your work carefully
                        to identify possible sentence fragments.</p>
                    </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry id="vague-pronouns-dlentry">
                    <dt>Vague Pronouns</dt>
                    <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Always make sure it is clear what pronouns are referring
                      to.</dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b>Description:</b> A pronoun should refer clearly to the word or words it
                        replaces (called the <term>antecedent</term>) elsewhere in the sentence or
                        in a previous sentence. Pronouns are words that take the place of a noun
                        (such as <i>"you"</i>, <i>"it"</i>, <i>"who"</i>, <i>"they"</i>,
                          <i>"everyone"</i>).</p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b><i>Example of an error:</i></b>
                        <i>Maximize the reuse possibilities for keys in topics by reflecting
                          different values depending on <b>their</b> defined scope.</i></p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b>Problem:</b> What is <i>"their"</i> referring to? It is probably
                        referring to the defined scope of <i>"keys"</i>, but with the way this
                        sentence is written, it could also be referring to the scope of
                          <i>"topics"</i>, <i>"values"</i>, or possibly even <i>"reuse
                          possibilities"</i>.</p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b>Solution:</b> If more than one word could be the antecedent (or if no
                        specific antecedent is present) you should edit the sentence to make the
                        meaning more clear. <i>For example: Maximize the reuse possibilities for
                          keys in topics by reflecting different values depending on the defined
                          scope of the keys.</i></p>
                    </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                </dl>
              </p></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Specific Grammar Rules in Regards to Conjunctions and Adverbs</dt>
            <dd>There are a lot of rules that apply to conjunctions and adverbs in English writing.
              The following are some of the most important grammar rules:<p>
                <dl>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>Coordinating Conjunctions vs. Subordinating Conjunctions</dt>
                    <dd><b>Description:</b> There are two types of conjunctions (coordinating and
                      subordinating) and they both can be used to join clauses. Various rules for
                      conjunctions can become very complicated.</dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><u><b>Rules to follow:</b></u> The most important things to remember are
                        how to punctuate both types and that subordinating conjunctions require more
                        than one clause to avoid a sentence fragment.</p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <ul>
                        <li><b>Coordinating Conjunctions</b> - A coordinating conjunction joins two
                          main clauses with equal emphasis, or connects any other grammatical unit.<ul>
                            <li><b><i>The seven coordinating conjunctions:</i></b>
                              <i>"and"</i>, <i>"or"</i>, <i>"but"</i>, <i>"nor"</i>, <i>"so"</i>,
                                <i>"for"</i>, <i>"yet"</i>.</li>
                            <li><u><b>Punctuation rules to follow:</b></u> There are three patterns
                              for punctuating <term>coordinating conjunctions</term>:<ol>
                                <li><b>Connecting two independent clauses</b> - When you connect two
                                  independent clauses with a coordinating conjunction, use a comma
                                  before the conjunction. {[Main Clause 1], [Coordinating
                                  Conjunction] [Main Clause 2]}<p><b><i>Example:</i></b>
                                    <i>"The sample document contains elements from various
                                        namespaces<b>, so</b> you need to use CSS Level 3 extensions
                                      to associate specific properties with those
                                  elements.</i></p></li>
                                <li><b>Connecting two items (other than two main clauses)</b> - Do
                                  not use a comma. {[Item 1] [Coordinating Conjunction] [Item
                                        2]}<p><b><i>Example:</i></b>
                                    <i>"These suggestions <b>and</b> guidelines are meant to help
                                      anyone.</i></p></li>
                                <li><b>Connecting three or more items in a series</b> - Use a comma
                                  after each item (except for the last) and before the conjunction.
                                  {[Item 1], [Item 2], [Coordinating Conjunction] [Item
                                        3]}<p><b><i>Example:</i></b>
                                    <i>" It is important to make documentation clear, concise<b>,
                                        and</b> comprehensible." </i></p></li>
                              </ol></li>
                          </ul></li>
                        <li><b>Subordinating Conjunctions</b> - A subordinating conjunction
                          emphasizes the idea in the main clause more than the one in the
                          subordinate clause. Also, it causes the clause that it appears in to
                          become dependent. Therefore, it will be a sentence fragment unless it is
                          joined to an independent clause.<p><i><b>Example of a fragment:</b> With
                              this option in effect, the referenced schema document is loaded.
                                <u>Unless</u> the absolute URI is the same as a schema document
                              already loaded.</i>
                            <b>(The second sentence is a fragment)</b></p><p><i><b>Example of a
                                complete sentence:</b> With this option in effect, the referenced
                              schema document is loaded <u>unless</u> the absolute URI is the same
                              as a schema document already loaded.</i>
                            <b>(One complete sentence)</b></p><ul>
                            <li><b><i>Examples of subordinating conjunctions:</i></b>
                              <i>"after"</i>, <i>"although"</i>, <i>"as"</i>, <i>"because"</i>,
                                <i>"if"</i>, <i>"since"</i>, <i>"though"</i>, <i>"unless"</i>,
                                <i>"whenever"</i>, <i>"while"</i>.</li>
                            <li><u><b>Punctuation rules to follow:</b></u> Generally, there are two
                              patterns for punctuating <term>subordinating conjunctions</term>:<ol>
                                <li>The main clause followed by a subordinate clause. Typically, a
                                  comma is not necessary. {[Main Clause] [Subordinate
                                        Clause]}<p><b><i>Example:</i></b>
                                    <i>"Saving the file is not allowed <b>unless</b> the file is
                                      already checked out.</i></p></li>
                                <li>A subordinate clause followed by the main clause. Typically, use
                                  a comma after the subordinate clause. {[Subordinate Clause], [Main
                                        Clause]}<p><b><i>Example:</i></b>
                                    <i>"DITA is an XML format<b>, although</b> you do not have to
                                      write raw XML to create and edit DITA topics.</i></p></li>
                              </ol></li>
                          </ul></li>
                      </ul>
                    </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                </dl>
              </p><dl>
                <dlentry id="conjunctive-adverbs-dlentry">
                  <dt>Conjunctive Adverbs</dt>
                  <dd><b>Description:</b><term>Conjunctive adverbs</term> are simply adverbs that
                    connect two independent clauses. They can sometimes move almost anywhere in a
                    sentence and they are usually used to link the ideas from two or more sentences,
                    but they can also be used to connect two independent main clauses in the same
                    sentence (although this is probably rare in technical documentation). Usually,
                    they are placed at the beginning of the second clause since it provides a
                    logical transition from one clause to the other. When used to connect two main
                    clauses a semicolon needs to be used between the first clause and the
                    conjunctive adverb, but again, this is rare in technical documentation. Most of
                    the time, the conjunctive adverbs need to be separated from the clause with one
                    or two commas.</dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><b><i>Examples of conjunctive adverbs:</i></b>
                      <i>"accordingly"</i>, <i>"also"</i>, <i>"consequently"</i>, <i>"for
                        example"</i>, <i>"for instance"</i>, <i>"furthermore"</i>, <i>"hence"</i>,
                        <i>"however"</i>, <i>"in fact"</i>, <i>"instead"</i>, <i>"likewise"</i>,
                        <i>"otherwise"</i>, <i>"nevertheless"</i>, <i>"therefore"</i>,
                      <i>"thus"</i>.</p>
                  </dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><u><b>Rules to follow:</b></u> For the purposes of User Guide, follow these guidelines:<ul>
                        <li>Except in some very rare circumstances, only use <term>conjunctive
                            adverbs</term> to connect the ideas from multiple sentences.</li>
                        <li>Most of the time, they should be used at the beginning of a sentence or
                          as the first words inside parentheses.</li>
                        <li>More often than not, they should be followed by a comma, and if used in
                          the middle of a sentence, they should also be preceded with a comma (the
                          word <i>"thus"</i> is usually only preceded by a comma when used in the
                          middle of a sentence). <note>Keep in mind that some of these words can
                            also be used as other grammatical constructs (for example,
                              <i>"accordingly"</i> and <i>"instead"</i> are often used as regular
                            adverbs in various parts of sentences without being preceded or followed
                            by a comma). However, when any of them are used as a <term>conjunctive
                              adverb</term>, the above rules apply.<ul>
                              <li><i>"however"</i> - Somewhat of a special case since it can also be
                                used as a normal verb that means <i>in whatever way</i> or <i>to
                                  whatever degree</i> (for example, <i>"However you decide to do it,
                                  ..."</i>). Regardless, whenever it is used as a <term>conjunctive
                                  adverb</term>, follow the rules above.</li>
                              <li><i>"also"</i> - This is a rather flexible adverb and can be used
                                in multiple other ways (for example, as a <term>focusing
                                  adverb</term>) without needing punctuation before or after.
                                Regardless, when used as a <term>conjunctive adverb</term>, follow
                                the rules above. </li>
                            </ul></note></li>
                      </ul></p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Position of Adverbs in a Sentence</dt>
                  <dd><b>Description:</b> There are so many complex rules for where to position
                    different types of adverbs within a sentence that it is not even worth
                    discussing most of them. Essentially, an <term>adverb</term> is a word that
                    modifies another word or phrase. In most cases, you should make sure the adverb
                    is placed as close to the word or phrase that it is modifying as possible and
                    you should always pay attention to how the placement of the adverb can change
                    the meaning of the sentence. For more specific rules in regards to the placement
                    of adverbs, the following website defines some very clear rules for various
                    situations: <xref
                      href="http://www.englishpractice.com/improve/position-adverbs-2/"
                      format="html" scope="external"/>.<p>
                      <dl>
                        <dlentry>
                          <dt><b><term>Focusing Adverbs</term> (<i>"also"</i>, <i>"only"</i>,
                                <i>"either"</i>, <i>"neither"</i>, <i>"just"</i>,
                              <i>"mostly"</i>):</b></dt>
                          <dd>For the purposes of our documentation, we should concentrate on making
                            sure certain <term>focusing adverbs</term> are placed in the proper
                            position because they represent the most common errors and improper
                            positioning of these adverbs can lead to sentences that are awkward or
                            where the meaning is unclear. Since focusing adverbs point to a
                            particular part of a sentence, the meaning conveyed often depends upon
                            their position. The adverbs <i>"also"</i> and <i>"only"</i> are the most
                            common examples that are used in our
                                documentation.<p><b><i>"Only"</i></b> - Consider how the placement
                              of the word <i>"only"</i> changes the meaning in the following examples:<ul>
                                <li><b><i>Example 1:</i></b>
                                  <i><b>Only</b> John gave Paul one dollar.</i> [No one else besides
                                  John game him a dollar].</li>
                                <li><b><i>Example 2:</i></b>
                                  <i>John gave <b>only</b> Paul one dollar.</i> [John gave Paul a
                                  dollar and no one else].</li>
                                <li><b><i>Example 3:</i></b>
                                  <i>John gave Paul <b>only</b> one dollar.</i> [John gave Paul one
                                  dollar and nothing more].</li>
                                <li><b><i>Example 4:</i></b>
                                  <i>John <b>only</b> gave Paul one dollar.</i> [John did nothing
                                  else besides giving Paul a dollar.]</li>
                              </ul></p><p><b><i>"Also</i></b> - Consider how the placement of the
                              word <i>"also"</i> changes the meaning in the following examples:<ul>
                                <li><b><i>Example 1:</i></b>
                                  <i><b>Also</b>, John thinks that Paul should stop smoking.</i> [In
                                  addition to other ideas, John thinks Paul should stop
                                  smoking.]</li>
                                <li><b><i>Example 2:</i></b>
                                  <i>John thinks that Paul <b>also</b> should stop smoking.</i>
                                  [John thinks Paul should stop smoking, along with other
                                  people.]</li>
                                <li><b><i>Example 3:</i></b>
                                  <i>John thinks Paul should <b>also</b> stop smoking.</i> [John
                                  thinks Paul should stop smoking, along with stopping other
                                  things.]</li>
                                <li><b><i>Example 4:</i></b>
                                  <i>John <b>also</b> thinks that Paul should stop smoking.</i>
                                  [Someone else and John think that Paul should stop smoking.]</li>
                              </ul></p></dd>
                          <dd>
                            <p><u><b>Rules to follow:</b></u> Most of the time it is best to place
                              focusing adverbs in front of and next to the word or words they are
                              modifying. However, be aware that doing so will not always eliminate
                              ambiguity. Therefore, you have to also rely on the context and
                              consider the meaning of the sentence based upon the placement of the
                              adverb. If you find it difficult to decide where to place them, try
                              rephrasing the sentence entirely.</p>
                          </dd>
                        </dlentry>
                      </dl>
                    </p></dd>
                  <dd>
                    <dl>
                      <dlentry>
                        <dt><b><i>Using Adverbs with Modal Verbs</i> (<i>"can"</i>, <i>"could"</i>,
                              <i>"may"</i>, <i>"might"</i>, <i>"must"</i>, <i>"will"</i>,
                              <i>"would"</i>, <i>"shall"</i>, <i>"should"</i>):</b></dt>
                        <dd>A <term>modal verb</term> is a type of auxiliary verb that is used to
                          indicate the likelihood, possibility, necessity, or ability. Deciding how
                          to position adverbs in relation to model verbs can also become very
                          confusing, especially when the modal verb is used with another verb (such
                          a form of the <term>infinitive verb</term>
                          <i>"to be"</i>.</dd>
                        <dd>
                          <p>Consider the following examples:<ul>
                              <li><b><i>Example 1:</i></b>
                                <i>The sample file <b>also</b> can be found in the SDK
                                  distribution.</i> [Awkward]</li>
                              <li><b><i>Example 2:</i></b>
                                <i>The sample file can <b>also</b> be found in the SDK
                                  distribution.</i> [Better]</li>
                            </ul></p>
                        </dd>
                        <dd>
                          <p><u><b>Rules to follow:</b></u> While both of the previous examples are
                            grammatically correct and they both have the same meaning, the second
                            one sounds and reads better, and you never want to cause your reader to
                            pause to consider the awkwardness of the flow. There are a lot of
                            exceptions to this rule, but MOST of the time, you should use the
                            following word order when using this type of combination: <b><i>[Modal
                                Verb] + [Adverb] + [Verb]</i></b>.</p>
                        </dd>
                      </dlentry>
                    </dl>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Specific Grammar Rules in Regards to Specific Words or Phrases</dt>
            <dd>The following grammar rules are meant to distinguish when and how to use specific
              words or which form of a word to use in particular situations:<p>
                <dl>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt><b><i>"a"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"an"</i></b></dt>
                    <dd><b>Description:</b> This is one of the most common errors made in English
                      writing. There is a common misperception that the rule is that you use
                        <i>"a"</i> before words that start with a consonant and <i>"an"</i> before
                      words that start with a vowel. However, that is only partially correct.
                      REMEMBER, it is how the subsequent word SOUNDS, not how it is written. The
                      letters 'H' and 'U' usually cause the most confusion because some words that
                      start with those letters have a consonant sound and some have a vowel
                      sound.</dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><u><b>Rule to follow:</b></u> The rule is that you use <i>"a"</i> before
                        words that start with a consonant SOUND and <i>"an"</i> before words that
                        start with a vowel SOUND.</p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b><i>Examples for "a":</i></b>
                        <i>"<u>Unique</u>" or "<u>URL</u>" - You would use "a'" before both words
                          because they both begin with a 'you' SOUND.</i>
                        <i>"<u>Historic</u>" or "<u>High</u>" - You would use "a'" before them
                          because they begin with a consonant 'h' SOUND.</i>
                      </p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b><i>Examples for "an":</i></b>
                        <i>"<u>Unusual</u>" or "<u>Umbrella</u>" - You would use "an'" before both
                          words because they both begin with an 'uh' SOUND.</i>
                        <i>"<u>Hour</u>" or "<u>HTTP</u>" - You would use "an'" before them because
                          they begin with an 'a-wer' and 'aye' SOUND, respectively.</i></p>
                    </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt><b><i>"Such as"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"Like"</i></b></dt>
                    <dd><b>Description:</b> This is another one of the most common problems found in
                      English writing. Many grammarians consider both to be acceptable, especially
                      when speaking, but when using them in technical writing, you should not use
                      them interchangeably because they have different implications. <i>"Like"</i>
                      suggests comparison (something is similar to something else), while <i>"such
                        as"</i> implies inclusion (something is precisely included as an example of
                      something).</dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><u><b>Rules to follow:</b></u> In most cases, avoid using <i>"like"</i>
                        when you can use <i>"such as"</i> instead, and only use <i>"like"</i> when
                        making some sort of comparison to something similar.</p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b><i>Example of "such as":</i></b>
                        <i>You can specify a set of transformation scenarios to convert XML
                          documents to various formats, <b>such as</b> HTML and PDF.</i><note>When
                            <i>"such as"</i> is part of a <term>non-restrictive clause</term>, as it
                          is in the above example, it needs to be preceded with a comma (or the
                          whole clause placed in parentheses).</note></p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b><i>Example of "like":</i></b>
                        <i>A DITA book map is intended for creating output that is <b>like</b> a
                          book.</i></p>
                    </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt><b><i>"That"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"Which"</i></b></dt>
                    <dd><b>Description:</b> There are some experts who believe this is more of a
                      style choice than a grammar rule, but those people are completely ignoring the
                      fact that when these two words are used interchangeably they are usually two
                      completely different types of grammatical words (<i>"that"</i> being an
                      adjective in these instances, and <i>"which"</i> being a pronoun/determiner).
                      Some people might also argue that the rules are more complex and flexible than
                      the rules we will use, but it is important to keep the rules simple and for
                      the purposes of our User Guide, we use these two words in ways that are only
                      grammatically correct and clear if we follow the rules listed below. Also, in
                      most cases, it looks and sounds much better to use this common grammar
                        rule.<note>It becomes even more complex and confusing when considering
                        combination of words such as <i>"for which"</i> or <i>"in which"</i>. They
                        are sometimes used instead of <i>"that"</i> to prevent ending a sentence
                        with a preposition. However, that becomes a completely different subject and
                        this rule should not be used for those instances. The word <i>"which"</i> is
                        also used in multiple ways, some of which are not interchangeable with
                          <i>"that"</i> (for example, <i>"determine which one to use"</i>). To make
                        it as simple as possible, just use this rule to determine when to use the
                        single words <i>"that"</i> or <i>"which"</i> when they could be used
                        interchangeably. </note></dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><u><b>Rules to follow:</b></u> To make a complex topic as simple as
                        possible, use <i>"that"</i> before a <term>restrictive clause</term> and
                          <i>"which"</i> before a <term>non-restrictive clause</term>.<ul>
                          <li>A <term>restrictive clause</term> is part of a sentence that you can
                            not get rid of because it specifically restricts some other part of the
                            sentence and without it the meaning of the sentence would change (or the
                            sentence would be incomplete).</li>
                          <li>A <term>non-restrictive clause</term> is something that can be left
                            off without changing the meaning of the sentence (or making it
                            incomplete) and it is simply additional information.<note
                              type="important">Non-restrictive clauses are almost always surrounded
                              by, or preceded by, commas. Therefore, whenever you use <i>"which"</i>
                              before a non-restrictive clause, it should be preceded with a
                              comma.</note></li>
                        </ul></p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b><i>Example of an improper use of "that":</i></b>
                        <i>This section lists and describes all the contextual menu actions
                            <b>that</b> are also available in various submenus.</i> [You should not
                        use <i>"that"</i> in this instance because the reader might understand that
                        the section only lists the actions that are in both locations instead of
                        understanding that the section includes ALL the contextual menu actions (and
                        that they are ALSO available in submenus). The clause that follows
                          <i>"that"</i> in this case is a non-restrictive clause that simply
                        provides additional information. Therefore, you should use <i>", which"</i>
                        in this type of instance.</p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b><i>Example of a proper use of "that":</i></b>
                        <i>This section explains the actions <b>that</b> are available for a
                          Berkeley DB XML connection.</i> [The clause that follows <i>"that"</i>
                        cannot be omitted without causing an incomplete sentence and it does not
                        simply provide additional information (it is essential to the meaning of the
                        sentence). Therefore, it is a restrictive clause and you must use
                          <i>"that"</i> instead of <i>"which"</i>].</p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b><i>Example of an improper use of "which":</i></b>
                        <i>The stylesheet contains templates <b>which</b> output the static header
                          and footers for various parts of the PDF.</i> [You cannot use
                          <i>"which"</i> in this case because the information that follows it is
                        essential to the meaning of the sentence and is not simply providing
                        additional information. In this case, you would need to use <i>"that"</i>
                        instead.]</p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b><i>Example of a proper use of "which":</i></b>
                        <i>While you are working on your own branch, other team members can continue
                          to make important changes in the parent branch<b>, which</b> could be the
                          trunk itself or any other branch.</i> [The clause that follows
                          <i>"which"</i> could be omitted without changing the meaning of the
                        sentence since it simply provides additional information and could even be
                        an independent idea of its own (for example, by changing <i>"which"</i> to
                          <i>"It"</i> and making it a new sentence.]</p>
                    </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt><b><i>"That"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"Who"</i></b></dt>
                    <dd><b>Description:</b> This can be tricky and complicated, but to make it as
                      simple as possible, consider who or what is being described. Some experts say
                      that it is acceptable to use either word when describing a person, but it
                      seems to dehumanize the person when using <i>"that"</i> to describe a
                      person.</dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><u><b>Rule to follow:</b></u> Use <i>"that"</i> when describing an object,
                        or <i>"who"</i> when describing a person.</p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b><i>Example of "that"</i></b>: <i>Permanent reassignment of a Named User
                          to a position <b>that</b> does not involve the use of the
                        Software.</i></p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b><i>Example of "who"</i></b>: <i>Permanent reassignment of a Named User
                            <b>who</b> owns the rights to the software.</i></p>
                    </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt><b><i>"To either"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"Either to"</i></b></dt>
                    <dd><b>Description:</b> This is one of those rules that differ depending on
                      whether you are speaking or writing. Both phrases mean exactly the same thing
                      and when speaking, both phrases are acceptable. However, when writing, <i>"to
                        either"</i> is simply MORE grammatically correct.</dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><u><b>Rules to follow:</b></u> As a general rule, it is better to use
                          <i>"to either"</i> since the word "either" implies a choice of two options
                        and by placing the <i>"to"</i> in the front, you are removing it from the
                        grammatical construction <i>'either A or B'</i>. If you do use <i>"either
                          to"</i>, you would need to include a second <i>"to"</i> to make the
                        construction grammatically correct (<i>'either <u>to</u> A or <u>to</u>
                          B'</i>).</p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b><i>Example of "either to":</i></b>
                        <i>You can use this API <b>either to</b> print the document or <b>to</b>
                          show the Print Preview dialog box.</i> [To make this sentence
                        grammatically correct, notice that you have to use a second <i>"to"</i> in
                        front of the second clause.]</p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b><i>Example of "to either":</i></b>
                        <i>You can use this API <b>to either</b> print the document or show the
                          Print Preview dialog box..</i> [Notice that by using <i>"to either"</i>
                        you do not need a second <i>"to"</i> before the second clause to make the
                        sentence grammatically correct.]</p>
                    </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt><b><i>"Affect"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"Effect"</i></b></dt>
                    <dd><b>Description:</b> These two words are often confused when referring to
                      something changing another thing. The word <i>"effect"</i> is a noun, while
                        <i>"affect"</i> is a verb.</dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><u><b>Rules to follow:</b></u> Basically, use <i>"Effect"</i> when
                        referring to the change itself (noun), and <i>"Affect"</i> when referring to
                        the act of changing (verb).</p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b><i>Example of "effect":</i></b>
                        <i>Documents that contain long lines can have a negative <b>effect</b> on
                          performance.</i></p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b><i>Example of "affect":</i></b>
                        <i>Documents that contain long lines can <b>affect</b> performance.</i></p>
                    </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt><b><i>"Between"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"Among"</i></b></dt>
                    <dd><b>Description:</b> This rule can be confusing, but you simply need to think
                      about whether or not the referenced things are clearly separated.</dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><u><b>Rules to follow:</b></u> Use <i>"between"</i> when referring to
                        multiple things that are clearly separated, and <i>"among"</i> for things
                        that you can cannot clearly separate because they are part of a group of
                        objects.</p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b><i>Example of "between":</i></b>
                        <i>The DITA Maps Manager organizes the relationships <b>between</b> maps and
                          topics.</i></p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b><i>Example of "among":</i></b>
                        <i>DITA maps organize the relationships <b>among</b> various topics.</i></p>
                    </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt><b><i>"Different"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"Various"</i></b> or
                          <b><i>"Multiple"</i></b></dt>
                    <dd><b>Description:</b> Misusing the word <i>"different"</i> is one of the most
                      common problems in formal and technical writing. When speaking, or perhaps in
                      colloquial writing, the two words are often used synonymously, but in formal
                      or technical writing it is important to differentiate between the two.
                        <i>"Different"</i> implies a comparison (<i>different</i> from what?),
                      whereas <i>"various"</i> or <i>"multiple"</i> implies multiplicity or
                      diversity.</dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><u><b>Rules to follow:</b></u> Do not use <i>"different"</i> when you mean
                          <i>"various"</i> or <i>"multiple"</i> (<i>"other"</i> and <i>"another"</i>
                        are also examples of words that might be better). Only use
                          <i>"different"</i> to refer to comparison or distinction between things.
                        Also, if you are to use the word <i>"different"</i>, stop and ask yourself
                        "it is different from what?" If you cannot answer that question or it does
                        not make sense, avoid using <i>"different"</i>.</p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b><i>Example of "different":</i></b>
                        <i>The name of the directory might be something <b>different</b> on your
                          system.</i></p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b><i>Example of "various":</i></b>
                        <i>The Quick Fix support helps you resolve <b>various</b> errors that appear
                          in documents.</i></p>
                    </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt><b><i>"However"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"But"</i></b> vs.
                      <b><i>"Although"</i></b></dt>
                    <dd><b>Description:</b> These three words are often misunderstood in English
                      writing and many people incorrectly think they are completely synonymous.
                      While their meanings are very similar, <i>"however"</i> and <i>"but"</i>
                      introduces a contrast or contradiction to a previous statement, while
                        <i>"although"</i> does not necessarily imply contrast and can be used if
                      both statements could be true. Also, <i>"but"</i> and <i>"although"</i> are
                      conjunctions, while <i>"however"</i> is an adverb and needs to be used
                      differently in the sentence structure.</dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><u><b>Rules to follow:</b></u> To make it as simple as possible, follow
                        these rules for each word:<ul>
                          <li><b><i>"However"</i></b> - When using <i>"however"</i>, in most cases
                            it should begin a new sentence and be followed by a comma. Use it when
                            you want to stress contrast or contradiction AND you want to start a new
                            sentence (therefore contrasting the two sentences).</li>
                          <li><b><i>"But"</i></b> - When using <i>"but"</i>, do not ever use it to
                            start a new sentence and it needs to be preceded by a comma. Use it when
                            you want to stress contrast or contradiction AND you do not want to
                            start a new sentence (therefore contrasting the two parts of the same
                            sentence).</li>
                          <li><b><i>"Although"</i></b> - This word may be used to start a sentence
                            or in the middle of a sentence. When using it to start a new sentence it
                            would not be followed by a comma. When using it in the middle of a
                            sentence it needs to be preceded by a comma. Use it when you want to
                            stress that both parts of the statement may be true (make sure both
                            parts of the statement are included in the sentence).</li>
                        </ul></p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b><i>Example of "however":</i></b>
                        <i>He knows a lot about general programming. <b>However,</b> he has some
                          confusion about Java programming.</i></p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b><i>Example of "but":</i></b>
                        <i>She said the book is blue, <b>but</b> I think it is green.</i></p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b><i>Examples of "although":</i></b>
                        <i>We usually speak in Romanian, <b>although</b> sometimes we use
                          English.</i> OR <i><b>Although</b> we usually speak in Romanian, sometimes
                          we use English.</i></p>
                    </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt><b><i>"Less"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"Fewer"</i></b></dt>
                    <dd><b>Description:</b> Despite popular belief, there is a clear difference
                      between when these two words should be used in most cases.</dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><u><b>Rules to follow:</b></u> Use <i>"less"</i> for things that are not
                        quantifiable, and <i>"fewer"</i> for things that you can clearly count.</p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b><i>Example of "less":</i></b>
                        <i>It uses less memory.</i></p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b><i>Example of "fewer":</i></b>
                        <i>It uses fewer than 300 MB.</i></p>
                    </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt><b><i>"Whether"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"Whether or not"</i></b></dt>
                    <dd><b>Description:</b> There are so many conditions to this rule that it seems
                      that many modern writers have decided that it is too complicated and not worth
                      their time to consider so they simply ignore all of them and never include
                        <i>"or not"</i> even when doing so leads to ambiguity. They justify this by
                      suggesting that the <i>"or not"</i> is implied when appropriate and is
                      therefore optional. However, this is clearly not always the case. Your meaning
                      can easily become unclear or ideas might seem incomplete if you omit <i>"or
                        not"</i> in many cases. In the very least, it might irritate your reader if
                      they have to pause and re-read the sentence, and its surrounding sentences, to
                      decipher the intended meaning.<p>Consider the following example: <i>Oxygen
                          prompts you to choose <b>whether</b> you want to paste the content as
                          XML.</i> The intended meaning could have been any of the following:<ul>
                          <li>Oxygen prompts you to choose whether you want to paste the content as
                            XML or paste it as something else (such as text). [In this case, the
                            sentence and idea is incomplete and you need to specify what that
                            'something else' is.]</li>
                          <li>Oxygen prompts you to choose whether you want to paste the content as
                            XML, or not at all. [In this case, it is imperative to use <i>whether or
                              not</i> to avoid breaking the flow and possible ambiguity.]</li>
                          <li>Oxygen prompts you to choose something (that was previously
                            mentioned), regardless of whether or not you want to paste the content.
                            [In this case, you would need a commas after choose and use <i>whether
                              or not</i> or <i>regardless of whether or not</i>.]</li>
                        </ul></p></dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><u><b>Rules to follow:</b></u> Consider the following rules when using the
                        word <i>"whether"</i>:</p>
                      <ul>
                        <li>If you are differentiating between whether to do something, or to not do
                          something entirely, always use <i>"whether or not"</i>.</li>
                        <li>If you are differentiating between two different things, use
                            <i>"whether"</i> and specify both things.</li>
                        <li>In situations where <i>"or not"</i> might be considered optional, it is
                          far better to include it than to omit it. Remember to make sure the
                          meaning of the sentence is clear and that it will not require the reader
                          to stop and re-read it simply because you left out a few extra words that
                          would make it more clear.</li>
                        <li>In some cases, it might be better to simply use some sort of <i>"if"</i>
                          statement instead.</li>
                        <li>Whenever the use of the word <i>"whether"</i> is synonymous to
                            <i>regardless of whether or not</i>, you must use <i>"whether or
                            not"</i> or <i>"regardless of whether or not"</i>. </li>
                      </ul>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b><i>Example of "whether":</i></b>
                        <i>Oxygen prompts you to choose <b>whether</b> you want to paste the content
                          as XML or plain text.</i></p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b><i>Example of "whether or not":</i></b>
                        <i>Oxygen prompts you to choose <b>whether or not</b> you want to paste the
                          content.</i></p>
                    </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                </dl>
              </p></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Tenses</dt>
            <dd>There are a lot of very complicated rules when it comes to using tenses in English
              writing. The proper use of tenses is important because improper use could lead to
              ambiguity and the intended meaning can be inadvertently changed if the wrong tense is
              used. Without making it more complicated than it needs to be, the following rules are
              simply guidelines for using tenses to help avoid glaring mistakes:<p>
                <dl>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>Consistency in Tenses</dt>
                    <dd><b>Description:</b> If you shift the tense of verbs from one tense to
                      another without a clear reason, it can confuse your readers. There are
                      instances where it is necessary to change tense, even within the same
                      sentence, but it should only be done when the reason is clear or to make
                      things even more clear.</dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><u><b>Rules to follow:</b></u> Follow these rules in regards to tense consistency:<ul>
                          <li>In general, keep tenses consistent within sentences and
                            paragraphs.</li>
                          <li>Avoid changing tenses when there is no time change for an action.</li>
                          <li>If you do need to change tenses, make sure that there is a clear
                            reason for it.</li>
                          <li>Always avoid ambiguity.</li>
                        </ul></p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b><i>Example:</i></b>
                        <i>Write the description of the problem that <b>was</b> encountered,
                            <b>send</b> it to our support team, and we <b>will reply</b> as soon as
                          possible.</i> Notice that past, present, and future tenses are used in the
                        same sentence. The reason for the switch to future tense (<i>"we will
                          reply"</i>) is quite clear. The part of the sentence that is in past tense
                          (<i>"that was encountered"</i>) could certainly be omitted without
                        changing the meaning, but there is absolutely nothing wrong with keeping it
                        because it simply makes it even more clear.</p>
                    </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>Future Tense</dt>
                    <dd><b>Description:</b> In English grammar, future tense is not considered a
                      true tense because tenses express the time of a state or action and the future
                      has not yet happened. Obviously, you need to future tense when referring to
                      something that will clearly happen in the future, but in professional writing,
                      using present tense (whenever possible) enhances your message by making it
                      more clear and precise. However, in technical documentation it is much more
                      common and acceptable to use future tense. This is because the instructions
                      often refer to events that will happen in the future or that depend on certain
                      conditions or actions before the events will occur.</dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><u><b>Rule to follow:</b></u> Avoid future tense when present tense makes
                        the meaning more clear. It is fine to use it when you are referring to
                        something that will specifically happen in the future or requires certain
                        things to happen before it will occur.</p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b><i>Example of when NOT to use it:</i></b>
                        <i>Our sample documentation framework <b>will be</b> very simple.</i> This
                        was an actual example from our User Guide. Notice how ambiguous this
                        sentence is. It will be simple when? Why is it not simple now? Does the user
                        need to do something to make it simple? Clearly, this sentence should be
                          <i>"Our sample documentation framework <b>is</b> very simple."</i></p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b><i>Example of when you should use it:</i></b>
                        <i>We <b>will reply</b> as soon as possible.</i> You have to use future
                        tense in this case because the action will very clearly happen in the
                        future.</p>
                    </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>Progressive Tense</dt>
                    <dd><b>Description:</b> The <term>progressive tense</term> is formed with a form
                      of the helping <i>"to be"</i> verb, plus the present participle of a main verb
                      with an <i>"ing"</i> ending. The use of progressive tenses is not
                      grammatically incorrect, but it requires the use of extra auxiliary verbs and
                      makes your ideas less precise, and possibly less clear. Particularly in
                      technical writing, it should only be used to refer to something that is very
                      clearly an ongoing action and present tense cannot be used in the precise
                      context.</dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><u><b>Rule to follow:</b></u> Simply avoid progressive tense unless it is
                        absolutely necessary (for example, when referring to a specific on-going
                        event).</p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b><i>Example of when NOT to use it:</i></b>
                        <i>Oxygen <b>is changing</b> the way you edit documents.</i> This sentence
                        should be <i>"Oxygen <b>changes</b> the way you edit documents."</i> Notice
                        that the second version is more powerful and precise.</p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>
                      <p><b><i>Example of when you should use it:</i></b>
                        <i>Unfortunately, you cannot minimize the dialog box while the operation
                            <b>is processing</b>.</i> In this instance, it is actually better to use
                        progressive tense since it is referring to the time period during an ongoing
                        event. You could replace <i>"is processing"</i> with <i>"processes"</i>, but
                        the progressive form is actually more clear and precise in this case.</p>
                    </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                </dl>
              </p></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Punctuation Rules</dt>
            <dd>Some punctuation rules are really just style choices (see the <xref
                href="#doc-rules/punctuation-style-rules-section" format="dita"><i>Punctuation
                  Rules</i> in the <i>Style Rules</i> section</xref>), although there are some
              concrete grammar rules in regards to punctuation. This section includes some of those
              concrete rules:<p>
                <dl>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>Commas</dt>
                    <dd>There are entire courses that provide all sorts of information about the
                      proper usage of commas. For the purposes of our documentation, a few of the
                      most common rules are described in this section.<dl>
                        <dlentry>
                          <dt>Comma After an Introductory Infinitive Phrase</dt>
                          <dd><b>Description:</b> An <term>infinitive</term> is a verb form that
                            typically begins with the word <i>"to"</i>. An <term>infinitive
                              phrase</term> includes the infinitive, plus any modifiers and
                            complements.</dd>
                          <dd>
                            <p><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Always use a comma after an introductory
                                <term>infinitive phrase</term>, unless the infinitive phrase is the
                              subject of the sentence. It would be extremely rare for an
                              introductory infinitive phrase to be the subject in our documentation,
                              so you can ignore the second part of the rule. Also, when an
                              infinitive phrase concludes a clause (rather than introducing it), no
                              punctuation is necessary.</p>
                          </dd>
                          <dd>
                            <p><b><i>Example of an introductory infinitive phrase:</i></b>
                              <i>To add index terms to a map<b>,</b> open the map in the editor and
                                add the elements.</i></p>
                          </dd>
                          <dd>
                            <p><b><i>Example of an infinitive phrase that concludes a
                                clause:</i></b>
                              <i>This section explains how to create and work with projects.</i></p>
                          </dd>
                        </dlentry>
                        <dlentry>
                          <dt>Commas (or Parentheses) Before and After Parenthetical
                            Expressions</dt>
                          <dd><b>Description:</b> A <term>parenthetical expression</term> is a
                            phrase or clause that is inserted within another phrase or clause.</dd>
                          <dd>
                            <p><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Use commas or parentheses (brackets) to separate
                                <term>parenthetical expressions</term>.</p>
                          </dd>
                          <dd>
                            <p><b><i>Example with commas:</i></b>
                              <i>This is useful if, for instance, you want to upgrade your existing
                                license.</i></p>
                          </dd>
                          <dd>
                            <p><b><i>Example with parentheses:</i></b>
                              <i>This is useful if (for instance) you want to upgrade your existing
                                license.</i></p>
                          </dd>
                        </dlentry>
                        <dlentry>
                          <dt>Comma to Separate an Introductory Word or Phrase</dt>
                          <dd><b>Description:</b> An <term>introductory phrase</term>, or
                              <term>introductory word</term>, is simply one that begins a sentence,
                            and includes <xref href="#doc-rules/conjunctive-adverbs-dlentry"
                              format="dita">conjunctive adverbs</xref> (such as <i>"however"</i>,
                              <i>"also"</i>, <i>"therefore"</i>, etc.)</dd>
                          <dd>
                            <p><u><b>Rule:</b></u> At the beginning of a sentence, introductory
                              words or phrases require a subsequent comma.</p>
                          </dd>
                          <dd>
                            <p><b><i>Example:</i></b>
                              <i>In the beginning<b>,</b> I had no idea how to use a comma.</i></p>
                          </dd>
                        </dlentry>
                        <dlentry>
                          <dt>Comma to Separate Each Segment in a Series</dt>
                          <dd><b>Description:</b> In all forms of writing, commas usually separate
                            more than two segments in a series, although the comma before the last
                            segment, called a <term>Serial Comma</term>, is considered optional and
                            therefore becomes a style choice.</dd>
                          <dd>
                            <p><u><b>Rule:</b></u> When there are more than two segments in a
                              series, each segment should be separated by a comma.  For the purposes
                              of the User Guide, the <xref href="#doc-rules/serial-comma-dlentry"
                                format="dita">style rule is that we always include the <term>serial
                                  comma</term></xref> when there is more than two segments (to avoid
                              any possible ambiguity).</p>
                          </dd>
                          <dd>
                            <p><b><i>Example:</i></b>
                              <i>It provides support to help you edit<b>,</b> transform<b>,</b> and
                                debug XML-based documents. </i><note>Do not separate TWO segments
                                with a comma unless they are <xref
                                  href="#doc-rules/comma-independent-clause-dlentry" format="dita"
                                    ><term>independent clauses</term></xref>. No comma is needed
                                when a conjunction joins two phrases that modify the same
                                verb.</note></p>
                          </dd>
                        </dlentry>
                        <dlentry id="comma-independent-clause-dlentry">
                          <dt>Comma to Separate Independent Clauses</dt>
                          <dd><b>Description:</b> An <term>independent clause</term> is a sentence
                            that can stand on its own.</dd>
                          <dd>
                            <p><u><b>Rule:</b></u> You should use commas to separate
                                <term>independent clauses</term> that are joined by <xref
                                href="#doc-rules/coordinating-conjunctions-li" format="dita"
                                >coordinating conjunctions</xref>. Here is how to test it: Would the
                              second part of the sentence (following the coordinating conjunction)
                              make a full sentence on its own? If so, add a comma. If not, leave it
                              out.</p>
                          </dd>
                          <dd>
                            <p><b><i>Example:</i></b>
                              <i>This tool is very powerful<b>,</b> and it includes a lot of
                                user-friendly features.</i></p>
                          </dd>
                        </dlentry>
                        <dlentry>
                          <dt>Comma to Separate Non-restrictive Clauses</dt>
                          <dd><b>Description:</b> Similar to parenthetical expressions, a
                              <term>non-restrictive clause</term> adds extra information that is not
                            essential to the basic meaning of the sentence.</dd>
                          <dd>
                            <p><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Use commas to separate <term>non-restrictive
                                clauses</term>. When a non-restrictive clause appears in the middle
                              of a sentence, place commas before and after it. When a
                              non-restrictive clause appears at the end of a sentence, place a comma
                              before it.</p>
                          </dd>
                          <dd>
                            <p><b><i>Example:</i></b>
                              <i>You can use the visual WebHelp Skin Builder tool<b>,</b> which does
                                not require knowledge of CSS language<b>,</b> to change the overall
                                appearance of the output.</i></p>
                          </dd>
                        </dlentry>
                      </dl></dd>
                  </dlentry>
                </dl>
              </p></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Common Grammar Rule Myths or Misperceptions</dt>
            <dd>Some English grammar rules are ambiguous and debatable. Various grammar guides and
              experts sometimes differ when it comes to certain rules. Most experts come to a common
              consensus in regards to many of these ambiguous rules, while others simply become
              style choices when there does not seem to be a common opinion. Some of these
              complicated rules have also evolved or changed over time and can therefore become
                misperceptions.<p>This section includes some of the most common misperceptions in
                regards to grammar rules:</p><dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Misperception: Do not end a sentence with a preposition.</dt>
                  <dd><b>Description:</b> There is simply more to it than that. The rule is really
                    that you should not end a sentence with a preposition when the sentence would
                    mean the same thing if you left off the preposition. However, there are
                    instances where it is better to end a sentence with a preposition. Examples of
                    prepositions include: <i>about</i>, <i>above</i>, <i>after</i>, <i>below</i>,
                      <i>before</i>, <i>between</i>, <i>except</i>, <i>for</i>, <i>from</i>,
                      <i>in</i>, <i>off</i>, <i>on</i>, <i>onto</i>, <i>out</i>, <i>to</i>,
                      <i>until</i>, <i>with</i>, <i>without</i>.</dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><u><b>Rules to follow:</b></u> Do not end a sentence with a preposition if
                      removing it would not change the meaning. Also, it is better to end a sentence
                      with a preposition that cannot be removed than to make the sentence sound
                      awkward trying to avoid it.</p>
                  </dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><b><i>Example 1:</i></b>
                      <i>The new location in the same repository you are switching <b>to</b>.</i>
                      [OK]</p>
                  </dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><b><i>Example 2:</i></b>
                      <i>The new location in the same repository <b>to which</b> you are
                        switching.</i> [AWKWARD]</p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Misperception: Do not split infinitives.</dt>
                  <dd><b>Description:</b> An <term>infinitive</term> is a two-word form of a verb,
                    such as <i>"to read"</i> or <i>"to understand"</i>. There is a common
                    misperception that you should not split infinitives, but there is actually
                    nothing wrong with doing so, although in technical writing it often means that
                    you are adding an unnecessary word. There are quite a few instances where using
                    split infinitives add meaning to a sentence. A common example is the phrase
                      <i>"to better understand"</i>. Including the word <i>"better"</i> certainly
                    adds some meaning. There are usually other ways to include these types of
                    powerful words without using them to split infinitives, but you also want to
                    avoid awkward sentences.</dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><u><b>Rules to follow:</b></u> Even though there is nothing grammatically
                      wrong with splitting infinitives, in technical writing, it is safer to avoid
                      them, if possible. However, you should also avoid creating awkward sentences
                      by trying too hard to avoid splitting infinitives. If you need to use an extra
                      word to add meaning and using that extra word to split an infinitive makes the
                      sentence less awkward than the alternatives, keep the split infinitive.</p>
                  </dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><b><i>Example 1:</i></b>
                      <i>You can also customize the actions in the toolbar <b>to better suit</b>
                        your needs.</i> [OK]</p>
                  </dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><b><i>Example 2:</i></b>
                      <i>You can also customize the actions in the toolbar to suit your needs
                        better.</i> [AWKWARD]</p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="start-sentence-adverbs-dlentry">
                  <dt>Misperception: Do not start a sentence with adverbs (such as <i>"Also"</i> or
                      <i>"However"</i>).</dt>
                  <dd><b>Description:</b> This rule is highly debated and often becomes a matter of
                    style choice, but it also depends on the type of adverb and proper punctuation
                    is important. An adverb describes, modifies, or provides more information about
                    a verb, and they usually end in <i>"ly"</i>. In general, you should not begin
                    sentences with common adverbs. However, this is not the case with
                      <term>conjunctive adverbs</term>. These adverbs are used as transitions
                    between sentences, they often can move almost anywhere in a sentence, and it is
                    absolutely acceptable to begin a sentence with most conjunctive adverbs as long
                    as you use proper punctuation (they should be followed by a comma).</dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><u><b>Rules to follow:</b></u> It is fine to begin a sentence with most
                        <term>conjunctive adverbs</term> as long as they are followed by a comma. As
                      a general rule, you should not begin a sentence with any other type of
                      adverb.</p>
                  </dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><b><i>Examples of conjunctive adverbs that are acceptable to begin a sentence
                          with:</i></b>
                      <i>Accordingly</i>, <i>Also</i>, <i>Consequently</i>, <i>Finally</i>, <i>For
                        example</i>, <i>For instance</i>, <i>Furthermore</i>, <i>Hence</i>,
                        <i>However</i>, <i>Incidentally</i>, <i>In fact</i>, <i>In other words</i>,
                        <i>Instead</i>, <i>Likewise</i>, <i>Meanwhile</i>, <i>On the contrary</i>,
                        <i>On the other hand</i>, <i>Otherwise</i>, <i>Nevertheless</i>,
                      <i>Next</i>, <i>Nonetheless</i>, <i>Similarly</i>, <i>Therefore</i>,
                        <i>Thus</i>. <b>Remember that if you begin a sentence with any of these,
                        they need to be followed by a comma.</b></p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Misperception: Do not start a sentence with conjunctions.</dt>
                  <dd><b>Description:</b> This is one of those rules in English grammar where most
                    people are taught that it is wrong, but most experts agree that it is acceptable
                    to do so. However, even though it is technically acceptable, it does not mean
                    that it should be done because it could lead to incomplete sentences, it can
                    sound quite monotonous, and it is often perceived as being unprofessional and
                    irritating to the reader. Ultimately, it really depends on the type of writing
                    and it becomes a style choice. For example, it is far more acceptable and common
                    in general writing than in technical writing.</dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><u><b>Rules to follow:</b></u> In technical writing, it is only appropriate
                      to begin sentence with certain <xref
                        href="#doc-rules/subordinating-conjunctions-li" format="dita"
                          ><term>subordinating conjunctions</term></xref>, but never with <xref
                        href="#doc-rules/coordinating-conjunctions-li" format="dita"
                          ><term>coordinating conjunctions</term></xref>. In most cases, you do not
                      use a comma after a subordinating conjunction that begins a sentence and the
                      most important thing to remember is that you need to avoid sentence
                      fragments.</p>
                  </dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><b><i>Examples of conjunctions that are acceptable to begin a sentence with
                          (AS LONG AS IT DOES NOT LEAD TO A SENTENCE FRAGMENT):</i></b> Certain
                      subordinating conjunctions (<i>"after"</i>, <i>"although"</i>, <i>"as soon
                        as"</i>, <i>"because"</i>, <i>"before"</i>, <i>"even though"</i>,
                        <i>"if"</i>, <i>"in case"</i>, <i>"now that"</i>, <i>"once"</i>,
                        <i>"since"</i>, <i>"though"</i>, <i>"unless"</i>, <i>"until"</i>,
                        <i>"when"</i>
                      <i>"whenever"</i>, <i>"while"</i>).</p>
                  </dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><b><i>Examples of conjunctions that you should NOT begin a sentence
                        with:</i></b> All coordinating conjunctions (<i>"and"</i>, <i>"or"</i>,
                        <i>"but"</i>, <i>"nor"</i>, <i>"so"</i>, <i>"for"</i>, <i>"yet"</i>), along
                      with some subordinating conjunctions (<i>"so that"</i>, <i>"than"</i>,
                        <i>"why"</i>). Again, the most important thing is to avoid sentence
                      fragments.</p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Misperception: Paragraphs must include more than one sentence.</dt>
                  <dd><b>Description:</b> A paragraph can be a single sentence. There is no rule
                    against it and if you can say what you need to say in a single sentence that
                    lacks a direct connection with other sentences, it is better to stop there and
                    go to a new paragraph.</dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><u><b>Rules to follow:</b></u> All the sentences in a paragraph should have
                      some sort of logical connection, but you also do not want the paragraphs to be
                      so long that your readers feel like they are facing an endless wall of text
                      and skip important information. There is nothing wrong with only including one
                      sentence in a paragraph, especially in technical writing, but you also do not
                      want to arbitrarily create multiple, sequential paragraphs with a single
                      sentence when their ideas are clearly connected.</p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl></dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p></section>
    <section id="ug-style-rules-section"><title>Style Rules for the User Guide</title>Style rules
      are not concrete writing rules. Instead, they are style choices. There are no concrete right
      or wrong ways to choose style rules. However, it is important to be consistent with style
      choices to make documentation readable and appealing. You certainly do not want to irritate
      your audience by using multiple, inconsistent, and incompatible styles.<p>To maintain
        consistent, readable, and visually appealing documentation, we will use the following
          <i>Style Rules</i> for the oXygen User Guide:</p><dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>General Style Rules</dt>
          <dd>The following <i>Style Rules</i> provide guidelines for general documentation style choices:<p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Capitalization in Hyphenated Words in Titles</dt>
                  <dd><b>Description:</b> This rule defines how to capitalize hyphenated words in
                    titles.</dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Always capitalize the first letter of the first word
                      before the hyphen (regardless of the type of word or its length). For the
                      subsequent words, consider them separate words and follow the same rules as
                      for <xref href="#doc-rules/titles-headings-dlentry" format="dita"
                        >Titles/Headings</xref>.</p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="titles-headings-dlentry">
                  <dt>Capitalization in Titles/Headings</dt>
                  <dd><b>Description:</b> These rules are meant to define how to capitalize words in
                    titles and headings in our documentation.</dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><u><b>Rules:</b></u> Follow these style rules for the User Guide:</p>
                    <p>
                      <ul>
                        <li>Capitalize the first letter of the first word, regardless of the number
                          of letters or type of word.</li>
                        <li>Capitalize the first letter of all nouns.</li>
                        <li>Capitalize the first letter of all verbs.</li>
                        <li>Capitalize all letters of acronyms, unless the common naming convention
                          for a specific acronym dictates otherwise (for example,
                          <i>"HiDPI"</i>).</li>
                        <li>Capitalize the first letter of all other words that have at least 4
                          letters, with the exception of the prepositions and conjunctions listed
                          below.</li>
                        <li>DO NOT capitalize the prepositions <i>"from"</i>, <i>"like"</i>,
                            <i>"into"</i>, <i>"over"</i>, <i>"with"</i>, or the conjunction
                            <i>"that"</i>.</li>
                        <li>DO NOT capitalize words with 3 or fewer letters (except for nouns,
                          verbs, and the first word), including the following words: <i>"a"</i>,
                            <i>"an"</i>, <i>"and"</i>, <i>"as"</i>, <i>"at"</i>, <i>"but"</i>,
                            <i>"by"</i>, <i>"for"</i>, <i>"in"</i>, <i>"it"</i>, <i>"of"</i>, "nor",
                          "on", "or", "the", "to", "up".</li>
                        <li>DO NOT capitalize specific names of code components (such as the names
                          of elements, attributes, etc.) Use proper tags (<codeph>codeph</codeph>)
                          for them, even in titles.</li>
                        <li>When listing company names or products in titles, use the same
                          capitalization format that they use.</li>
                      </ul>
                    </p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Company or Product Names</dt>
                  <dd><b>Description:</b> This rule defines how to write company and product
                    names.</dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><u><b>Rule:</b></u> When listing company names or products, use the same
                      capitalization format and naming convention that the company uses (for
                      example, <i>"oXygen"</i> or <i>"XProc"</i>).</p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Icons</dt>
                  <dd><b>Description:</b> These rules are meant as a guideline when listing
                    interface icons for actions (such as toolbar and menu actions).</dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><u><b>Rules:</b></u> Follow these style rules for the User Guide:</p>
                    <p>
                      <ul>
                        <li>Whenever listing an action that has an icon on the toolbar or in a menu,
                          include an image of the icon before the name of the action.</li>
                        <li>When using icons before the name of an action, do not add a space
                          between the icon and the action name.</li>
                        <li>Put both the icon and the name of the action inside a
                            <codeph>uicontrol</codeph>.</li>
                        <li>Whenever possible, use a maximum height of 16 pixels.</li>
                        <li>Avoid using layers, transparency, or other metadata.</li>
                        <li>Use a white background.</li>
                        <li>Use PNG for the format. When using GIMP, deselect all of the <i>save
                            as</i> options. </li>
                      </ul>
                    </p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Images</dt>
                  <dd><b>Description:</b> These rules are meant as a guideline when using images in
                    the documentation.</dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><u><b>Rules:</b></u> Follow these style rules for the User Guide:</p>
                    <p>
                      <ul>
                        <li>Generally, it is best to only include images to supplement the content
                          and provide some sort of useful context for the reader. For example, it is
                          not necessary to include images for features or dialog boxes that are self
                          explanatory.</li>
                        <li>Unless the image is very small and appears in the middle of a block of
                          text, it is always best to include the image in a <codeph>fig</codeph>
                          element and include a title.</li>
                        <li>The maximum height and width is 650 pixels, but it is always best to
                          make the images as small as possible without sacrificing resolution.</li>
                        <li>Use a white background.</li>
                        <li>Use PNG for the format. When using GIMP, deselect all of the <i>save
                            as</i> options. </li>
                      </ul>
                    </p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Links</dt>
                  <dd><b>Description:</b> It is better to include more links than what is necessary,
                    rather than leaving your readers without the means for easily navigating to
                    other pertinent content.</dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><u><b>Rules:</b></u> Provide links whenever more clarification could be
                      helpful. The types of things that should be linked include:</p>
                    <p>
                      <ul>
                        <li>Pronouns and other specific terms that may not be common knowledge.
                          Glossary terms should be used in many of these cases.</li>
                        <li>When listing a specific option (such as options in a Preference page,
                          specific dialog box, menu, etc.) a link should be included to reference
                          the specific topic that describes the option.</li>
                        <li>Whenever referring to certain specifications or other external
                          resources, provide links to those specific resources.</li>
                        <li>Use cross references to other topics that have more information about
                          specific ideas.</li>
                        <li>Use related links to other topics that include similar information about
                          the current topic.</li>
                      </ul>
                    </p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Lists</dt>
                  <dd><b>Description:</b> The various types of lists are indented differently in the
                    output and therefore certain list types look better in particular situations.
                    These rules are meant to define what type of lists to use in certain
                          situations.<p><u><b>Rules:</b></u> Use the following guidelines for the
                      type of lists to use in the User Guide:</p><p><ul>
                        <li>The most important rule to follow is that you should always consider the
                          most commonly used output format and try to provide a visually appealing
                          contrast for lists. You do not want your readers to become discouraged
                          with a seemingly never ending wall of unordered lists (or other types of
                          lists, one after another). </li>
                        <li>When describing actions or options (for example, the topics that
                          describe the preference pages), it is better to use <term>definition
                            lists</term> (<codeph>dl</codeph>), especially for parent nodes.
                            <term>Unordered lists</term> (<codeph>ul</codeph>) can be used in the
                            <codeph>dd</codeph> elements for lists inside the definition lists to
                          provide contrast.</li>
                        <li>When documenting procedural information, use <term>unordered
                            lists</term> (<codeph>ul</codeph>) when steps do not need to occur in
                          sequence.</li>
                        <li>When documenting procedural information, always use <term>ordered
                            lists</term> (<codeph>ol</codeph>) when the steps must occur in a
                          sequence.</li>
                      </ul></p></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Notes</dt>
                  <dd><b>Description:</b> These rules are meant to define when and how to use note
                    elements.</dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><u><b>Rules:</b></u> Follow these style rules in regards to notes in the User Guide:</p><p><ul>
                        <li>If possible, avoid adding consecutive notes.</li>
                        <li>If necessary to add consecutive notes, then use different types.</li>
                        <li>Add a note when:<ul>
                            <li>You want to emphasize something important.</li>
                            <li>The idea does not fit with the flow of the section.</li>
                          </ul></li>
                      </ul></p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Parentheses</dt>
                  <dd><b>Description:</b> These rules are meant to define when and how to use
                    parentheses.</dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><u><b>Rules:</b></u> Parentheses can be used to set apart additional
                      information that is useful to the reader but not integral to the rest of the
                      sentence. Follow these style rules for the User Guide:</p>
                    <p>
                      <ul>
                        <li>When using them in normal writing (as opposed to some sort of code), use
                          parentheses (brackets) instead of square brackets, hyphens, semicolons, or
                          any other symbol.</li>
                        <li>Typically, you should place text that is surrounded by parentheses
                          inside a sentence, rather than as a sentence of its own. In most instance
                          in our documentation, if it is a complete sentence of its own, the content
                          should not be in parentheses.</li>
                        <li>Whatever is inside the parentheses, it must not be grammatically
                          integral to the surrounding sentence. If it is, the sentence must be
                          rewritten.</li>
                        <li>Follow the <xref
                            href="#doc-rules/punctuation-inside-parentheses-dlentry" format="dita"
                            >punctuation inside parentheses rules</xref>.</li>
                      </ul>
                    </p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Possession</dt>
                  <dd><b>Description:</b> Normally, in English writing, you indicate possession for
                    a singular noun with an apostrophe plus the letter <i>"s"</i>. It can be a bit
                    complicated when dealing with nouns that end in an <i>"s"</i> (plural or
                    singular) and it can sometimes lead to confusion. However, in technical writing,
                    it is better to avoid using possession to avoid any possibility of confusion. In
                    most instances, there is an alternate way of writing sentences that might
                    include words that show possession. While these alternate ways might sometimes
                    seem overly formal for general writing or spoken communication, in technical
                    writing, not only are they acceptable, but they are actually preferred because
                    the more formal ways of writing the sentences are usually considered to be more
                    professional and more grammatically correct. </dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Avoid using possessives in the User Guide, if at all
                      possible. If you find yourself using an apostrophe to show possession, rewrite
                      the sentence. There might be some rare cases where you cannot find a better
                      ways of writing the sentence and in those cases, use an apostrophe plus
                        <i>"s"</i> at the end of singular nouns and just an apostrophe at the end of
                      words that end in <i>"s"</i> (plural or singular).</p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Plural Acronyms</dt>
                  <dd><b>Description:</b> These rules define how to list plural acronyms. This is a
                    difficult one to define because there are a lot of different opinions about it
                    among experts and there does not seem to be a consensus for how they should be
                    written. The problem is that there are a variety of ways that acronyms are read
                    and deciphered and there is a lot of different opinions about which method looks
                    the best and which methods cause the most ambiguity. The rules that were chosen
                    are meant to make it as simple as possible while avoiding as much ambiguity as
                    possible.</dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><u><b>Rules:</b></u> Follow these style rules for the User Guide:</p>
                    <p>
                      <ul>
                        <li>DO NOT use <i>'s</i> at the end of acronyms since apostrophes are meant
                          to denote possession. Since we try to avoid using possession, and hence
                          apostrophes, in our documentation, we certainly do not want to cause
                          confusion by using them to signify a plural acronym.</li>
                        <li>To prevent any type of confusion, if at all possible, try to avoid using
                          plural acronyms entirely. Try to find a way to write the sentence in
                          singular form or expand the acronym to its full name.</li>
                        <li>If you do need to use a plural acronym, capitalize all letters of the
                          actual acronym and then use a lower case <i>s</i> at the end. If it seems
                          to look odd, use italics for the <i>s</i>. This also applies to acronyms
                          that end in an <i>S</i> (for example, CMS<i>s</i>).</li>
                      </ul>
                    </p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Punctuation in Lists or Steps</dt>
                  <dd><b>Description:</b> These rules define how to use punctuation at the end of
                    lists or steps.</dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><u><b>Rules:</b></u> Follow these style rules for the User Guide:</p>
                    <p>
                      <ul>
                        <li>DO NOT use semi-colons at the end of list items or steps.</li>
                        <li>Be consistent with the ending punctuation for all items (bullets) within
                          a list or step.</li>
                        <li>Use a period at the end of the list items or steps, or a colon if
                          introducing another list inside the list item or step.</li>
                        <li>If each bullet only contains one word (or a series of proper nouns),
                          punctuation is not necessary and usually looks better without. </li>
                      </ul>
                    </p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Spelling: American vs. British English</dt>
                  <dd><b>Description:</b> There are some words that are spelled differently in these
                    two forms of English (for example, <i>"color"</i> in American English vs.
                      <i>"colour"</i> in British English). It is certainly grammatically acceptable
                    to use either convention as long as you are consistent. This rule is meant to
                    define which convention we should use for such words in our documentation.</dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Since we have more customers in North America than in
                      Great Britain, we will always use American English spelling for our
                      documentation.</p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Structured Markup</dt>
                  <dd><b>Description:</b> It is important to use markup liberally and consistently
                    to make the documentation more visually appealing and readable. These rules are
                    meant to be general guideline for using tags consistently throughout the
                    documentation.</dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><u><b>Rules:</b></u> The following list is just some of the most common tags
                      that are used in the User Guide, and a description of the type of content that
                      should be placed in the tags.</p>
                    <p>
                      <ul>
                        <li><b>API Names (<codeph>apiname</codeph>)</b> - Use this tag for specific
                          names of API extensions, methods, and classes.</li>
                        <li><b>Bold (<codeph>b</codeph>)</b> - Use this tag to provide an emphasis
                          on certain text.</li>
                        <li><b>Code Phrases (<codeph>codeph</codeph>)</b> - Use this tag for the
                          specific names of elements, attributes, and other snippets of code.</li>
                        <li><b>File Paths (<codeph>filepath</codeph>)</b> - Use this tag for listing
                          the name of a specific file or file path.</li>
                        <li><b>Italic (<codeph>i</codeph>)</b> - Use this tag for content that
                          should stand out from normal text.</li>
                        <li><b>Keyboard Shortcuts (<codeph>shortcut</codeph>)</b> - Use this tag to
                          identify keyboard shortcuts.</li>
                        <li><b>Notes (<codeph>note</codeph>)</b> - Use this tag for drawing
                          attention to additional information beyond the main text. Use the
                            <codeph>type</codeph> attribute to differentiate multiple contiguous
                          notes or to define their importance.</li>
                        <li><b>Oxygen (<codeph>product</codeph>)</b> - Use the
                            <codeph>product</codeph> key whenever referring to oXygen.</li>
                        <li><b>Terms (<codeph>term</codeph>)</b> - Use this tag for glossary terms
                          and other words or phrases that the reader might want an additional
                          explanation or definition.</li>
                        <li><b>UI Controls (<codeph>uicontrol</codeph>)</b> - Use this tag for
                          specific names of user interface items, such as names of buttons, actions,
                          dialog boxes, views, menus, and modes (<uicontrol>Text</uicontrol>,
                            <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Grid</uicontrol>, or
                            <uicontrol>Design</uicontrol>). Alternatively, <codeph>wintitle</codeph>
                          can be used for names of such things as dialog boxes, views, modes, or
                          windows since <codeph>uicontrol</codeph> and <codeph>wintitle</codeph>
                          tags are rendered the same in all the outputs.</li>
                        <li><b>WebApp (<codeph>webappProduct</codeph>)</b> - Use the
                            <codeph>webappProduct</codeph> code template whenever referring to
                          WebApp (the product or component).<note type="tip">It is useful to
                            transform individual topics into XHTML to see how the use of tags will
                            look in the output.</note></li>
                      </ul>
                    </p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Writing Approach for Creating Topics</dt>
                  <dd><b>Description:</b> These rules are meant to provide basic guidelines for the
                    type of approach that should be used for creating topics in the User Guide.</dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><u><b>Rules:</b></u> Follow these rules for creating topics in the User Guide:<ul>
                        <li>Each topic should be based on a single overall idea.</li>
                        <li>Each topic should be complete in and of itself, while linking to other
                          related and relevant information.</li>
                        <li>Each topic should be able to stand on its own without requiring the user
                          to read other topics prior to the current one.</li>
                        <li>Regardless of how the topics are organized the map, users should be able
                          to read them in any order and skip around to other topics without a
                          required sequence. However, topics should also be arranged in a logical
                          order in the map or table of contents so that users can navigate in a
                          logical sequence, if they so desire.</li>
                        <li>Each topic should be designed so that it makes sense if readers find it
                          with the first result from a search.<note type="tip">Consider the
                            following example. This was originally the first sentence in a topic
                            about custom XML refactoring operations: <i>If none of the predefined
                              operations will help you accomplish a particular refactoring task, you
                              can create a custom operation that is specific to your needs.</i> If
                            this was the first topic they came across in a specific search, they may
                            question what "predefined operations" the topic is referring to,
                            especially since there was no link to the predefined operations.
                            Accordingly, it is better to begin the topic with this sentence:
                              <i>While <ph keyref="product"/> includes a variety of predefined XML
                              refactoring operations to help you accomplish particular tasks, you
                              can also create custom operations according to your specific
                              needs.</i></note></li>
                      </ul></p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Use of Specific Words (Style Rules)</dt>
          <dd>The following <i>Style Rules</i> provide guidelines for the use of particular words:<p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><b><i>"Authors"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"Writers"</i></b></dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Simply as a matter of company preference, use <i>"content
                      authors"</i> instead of <i>"technical writers"</i>.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><b><i>"Combo Box"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"Combobox"</i></b>
                  </dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Use <i>"combo box"</i> instead of <i>"combobox"</i>.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><b><i>"Cursor"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"Caret"</i></b></dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules:</b></u> Use <i>"cursor"</i> instead of <i>"caret"</i>.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><b><i>"Dialog Box"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"Dialog"</i></b></dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Use <i>"dialog box"</i> instead of <i>"dialog"</i>.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><b><i>"Drop-Down Menu"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"Combo Box</i></b></dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Use <i>"drop-down menu"</i> or <i>"drop-down list"</i>
                    when referring to composite buttons that include submenus.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><b><i>"etc."</i></b></dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Typically, only use <i>"etc."</i> inside parentheses. For
                    example: <i>"(XML parser, XSLT transformer, XQuery engine, etc.)"</i></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><b><i>"Following"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"Next"</i></b></dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> In present tense instances where you are introducing
                    something that follows (such as <i>"In the subsequent chapters..."</i>), use
                      <i>"following"</i> or <i>"subsequent"</i> instead of <i>"next"</i> (for
                    example, <i>"In the following image..."</i> rather than <i>"In the next
                      image..."</i>).</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><b><i>"For Example"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"e.g."</i></b> vs.
                    <b><i>"i.e."</i></b></dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Since there is a lot of ambiguity in regards to when and
                    how to use these abbreviations <i>"e.g."</i> and <i>"i.e."</i>, it is safer to
                    NEVER use either of them. Instead, be specific and use the full versions
                      (<i>"For example"</i> or <i>"In other words"</i>).</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><b><i>"Includes"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"Comes with"</i></b></dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> In most cases, use <i>"includes"</i> instead of <i>"comes
                      with"</i> (for example, <i>"oXygen includes a user-friendly
                    interface..."</i>).</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><b><i>"Multiple"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"More than one"</i></b></dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Use <i>"multiple"</i> instead of <i>"more than
                    one"</i>.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><b><i>"Schemas"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"Schemata"</i></b> (plural)</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Use <i>"Schemas"</i> instead of <i>"Schemata"</i> to refer
                    to the plural form of the word.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><b><i>"They"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"He/She"</i></b></dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Use <i>"they"</i> rather than <i>"he/she"</i>.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><b><i>"You"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"One"</i></b></dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Use <i>"you"</i> rather than an impersonal
                    <i>"one"</i>.</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>oXygen-Related Naming Convention Rules</dt>
          <dd>The following <i>Style Rules</i> provide guidelines for using oXygen-related names and components:<p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>oXygen</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Use the product key when referring to the various forms of
                      <i>"oXygen"</i>, unless it is in a link, name of a file path, legal reference,
                    or a tag that does not allow the insertion of the product key.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Ellipses in UI Names</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Do not use ellipses when listing interface actions, even
                    if it has them in its name.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Content Completion</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Use <i>"Content Completion Assistant"</i> (inside a
                      <codeph>wintitle</codeph>) when referring to the specific name of this
                    feature. You can use <i>"content completion"</i> or <i>"content completion
                      assistance"</i> for a general reference to the subject.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Editing Modes</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> When specifically referring to one of the modes, use
                      <i>"editing mode"</i> or <i>"mode"</i> instead of <i>"editor"</i> (for
                    example, <i>"<uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> editing mode"</i> or
                        <i>"<uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode"</i> instead of
                        <i>"<uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> editor"</i>. It is fine to use
                      <i>"editor"</i> when referring to the editor window in general (without
                    reference to the specific mode). </dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="punctuation-style-rules-section">
          <dt>Punctuation Style Rules</dt>
          <dd>The following <i>Style Rules</i> pertain to punctuation:<p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry id="serial-comma-dlentry">
                  <dt>Serial Commas</dt>
                  <dd><b>Description:</b> A <term>serial comma</term> (also known as the
                      <term>Oxford comma</term>) is a comma that is placed immediately before
                    coordinating conjunctions (<i>"and"</i>, <i>"or</i>) in a series of three or
                    more items. In other words, it is the comma that comes before the final item in
                    the series. This is just a style rule and some writers choose to always include
                    the serial comma, while others choose to never include it. The important thing
                    is to always be consistent. However, omitting the serial comma can sometimes
                    leads to ambiguity, especially in complex sentences, so it seems more logical to
                    always include it rather than always omitting it.</dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><u><b>Rules:</b></u> Always include a serial comma in a series of three or
                      more items. Do not use a serial comma for just two items.</p>
                  </dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><b><i>Example:</i></b>
                      <i>The following search actions can be applied on pattern, phase<b>,</b> or
                        diagnostic types and are available from the Search submenu.</i> [Notice that
                      the serial comma is included before the third item in the series (before the
                        <i>"or"</i> conjunction), but a comma is NOT included before <i>"and"</i>
                      because the content after that conjunction is not part of the series of items
                        (<i>"pattern"</i>, <i>"phase"</i>, <i>"diagnostic types"</i>).</p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="punctuation-inside-parentheses-dlentry">
                  <dt>Punctuation at the end of Parentheses</dt>
                  <dd><b>Description:</b> There are usually two rules for using punctuation at the
                    end of parentheses, depending on whether or not the content inside the
                    parentheses is a complete sentence. However, in our documentation, content
                    inside parentheses should never be a complete sentence, so our rules are quite
                    simple.</dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><u><b>Rules:</b></u> When ending punctuation is required after parentheses,
                      always place it outside the parentheses. There might seem to be an exception
                      to this when the last word in the parentheses is a contraction that requires a
                      period (for example, <i>etc.</i>), but it actually still applies in that case
                      because you would put the punctuation inside and outside the ending
                      parenthesis.</p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Inside Quotations</dt>
                  <dd><b>Description:</b> There are two conflicting style rules in regards to
                    whether punctuation goes inside or outside quotations, depending on whether you
                    use American or British English rules. Since we use very few quotation marks in
                    our documentation, it is unnecessary to go into extensive details about these
                    rules. Instead, in those rare instances where quotations are used, we will use a
                    simplified version of the American rules.</dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><u><b>Rules:</b></u> In the rare instances where quotations are required,
                      always place commas and periods inside the closing quotations mark, while
                      semicolons, colons, and dashes always go outside the closing quotation mark.
                      Avoid using other punctuation with quotations, or avoid using quotations.</p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Hyphens</dt>
                  <dd><b>Description:</b> There are a lot of complicated rules in regards to using
                    hyphens and they depend on the type of word or words in question. Fortunately,
                    there are really only two types of instances that we need to focus on for our
                    documentation since all other possible instances would be very rare in our style
                    of technical writing. In our case, the two types of words that require rules for
                    hyphens are <term>compound adjectives</term> and <term>prefixes</term>.</dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><u><b>Rules for <term>compound adjectives</term>:</b></u>
                      <term>Compound adjectives</term> are two or more words that are combined to
                      make an adjective and therefore describe a noun or noun phrase. Follow these
                      rules in regards to hyphenating compound adjectives:<ul>
                        <li>Always hyphenate compound words that include hyphens in their dictionary
                          definitions. Examples: <i>"right-click</i>, <i>"double-click"</i>,
                            <i>"built-in"</i>, <i>"pop-up"</i>, <i>"drop-down"</i>,
                          <i>"on-site"</i>.</li>
                        <li>Hyphenate compound adjectives whenever they are placed before a
                          noun.</li>
                        <li>Do not hyphenate compound adjectives when they are placed after a noun,
                          unless they are hyphenated by definition.</li>
                        <li>Do not hyphenate compounds that are formed with <i>"ly"</i> adverbs,
                          even when they precede a noun they modify (for example, <i>"fully
                            developed program"</i>)</li>
                        <li>The most important thing is to avoid ambiguity, so if there is still a
                          question as to whether or not to hyphenate the compound words, it is
                          better to hyphenate them than the reverse.</li>
                        <li>DO NOT hyphenate the following words: <i>"plugin"</i>,
                            <i>"screenshot"</i>, <i>"checkbox"</i></li>
                      </ul></p>
                  </dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><u><b>Rules for <term>prefixes</term>:</b></u> When it comes to hyphenating
                      prefixes, it is completely a style choice, but it is important to avoid
                      ambiguity and it is preferable to hyphenate words that would otherwise look
                      awkward. Based on that, in most cases, prefixes that result in two consecutive
                      vowels should be hyphenated.<ul>
                        <li><b>Examples of prefixes to hyphenate:</b>
                          <i>"co-exist"</i>, <i>"co-owner"</i>, <i>"re-enable"</i>,
                            <i>"re-executing"</i>, <i>"re-engineering"</i>, <i>"re-evaluate"</i>,
                          and ALL words that use the <i>"non-"</i> prefix.</li>
                      </ul></p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Semi-Colons</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> The only time that semi-colons should ever be used in the
                    User Guide is in <codeph>codeblocks</codeph>.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Exclamation Marks</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Except for very rare instances, it is not necessary to use
                    exclamation marks in the User Guide.</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></section>
    <section id="website-style-rules-section"><title>Style Rules for the Website</title>This section
      includes some basic style rules specifically for documenting certain parts of the website.<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>What's New Section</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>The following <i>Style Rules</i> pertain to adding features in the <i>What's New</i>
            sections of the website.<p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Content of Features</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Whenever possible, the content of each feature should
                    focus on its actual benefit to the end user.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Links to the User Guide</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Add links to the User Guide for features in which users
                    might want more information.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Structured Markup</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules:</b></u> The following list is some of the most common tags that
                    are used in the website, and a description of the type of content that should be
                    placed in the tags.<ul>
                      <li><b>Bold (<codeph>strong</codeph>)</b> - Use the <codeph>strong</codeph>
                        tag when referring to <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol>,
                          <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Grid</uicontrol>, or
                          <uicontrol>Design</uicontrol> modes.</li>
                      <li><b>Emphasis (<codeph>emf</codeph>)</b> - Use the <codeph>emf</codeph> tag
                        for names of UI controls.</li>
                      <li><b>Italics (<codeph>italic</codeph>)</b> - Use the <codeph>italic</codeph>
                        tag for content that would normally be wrapped in various code-related DITA
                        elements (such as <codeph>codeph</codeph>, <codeph>apiname</codeph>,
                          <codeph>filepath</codeph>, etc.)</li>
                      <li><b>oXygen (<codeph>product</codeph>)</b> - Use the
                          <codeph>product</codeph> key whenever referring to oXygen.</li>
                    </ul></dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Other Style Rules for the Website</dt>
          <dd>The following are other <i>Style Rules</i> that pertain the website.<p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Time Zones</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> When referring to time zones in North America, use the 2
                    letter abbreviation (<i>ET</i> for Eastern Time). DO NOT use the 3 letter
                    abbreviation (for example, <i>EDT</i> or <i>EST</i>) to avoid causing confusion
                    or listing an inaccurate time.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Syncro Soft</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Use <i>"Syncro Soft"</i> unless <i>"Syncro"</i> is clearly
                    defined as <i>"Syncro Soft"</i> in the document.</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></section>
    <section id="writing-tips-section"><title>Writing Tips and Suggestions</title>The writing rules
      and tips listed in this section are more suggestions than concrete rules, but they are
      important to make documentation clear, concise, effective, absorbing, and comprehensible.
      These suggestions and guidelines are meant to help anyone improve their writing skills.  <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Good Documentation Requires Relentless Editing</dt>
          <dd>If you <i>really</i> want to produce great documentation, it needs to be proofread and
            edited. No matter how talented a writer happens to be, it is nearly impossible to avoid
            mistakes on the first attempt.<p><b>Tips for proofreading and editing:</b><ul>
                <li>It is often a good idea to write all of your text, then take a break from it,
                  and return to proofread and edit it later with fresh eyes and ideas.</li>
                <li>When proofreading your text, shorten, delete, and rewrite anything that does not
                  add to its meaning.</li>
                <li>It is also a good idea to have someone else review your documentation because
                  when you read something you wrote yourself, you know what you <i>meant</i> to
                  write, so it is really easy to just skip over typos or missing words.</li>
                <li>If you are editing your own work, changing the indent structure or font size can
                  help you recognize mistakes that were previously unnoticed.</li>
              </ul></p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Basic Writing Rules</dt>
          <dd>The following rules are suggestions in regards to general writing standards:<p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Complete Sentences</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> Except in extraordinary circumstances,
                    sentences should always be complete. Proofread your work carefully to spot
                    sentence fragments that are written as if they are complete sentences.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Redundancy</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> It is usually a good practice to avoid
                    redundancy, or extra unnecessary words, in your writing. Redundancy makes your
                    writing less effective because it makes the reader waste time and attention
                    re-reading information that was already provided. The point of your writing
                    should be to provide all the necessary information in the most precise and
                    effective manner possible. There are times when it is good to use redundancy for
                    emphasis, but in all other situations it is best to avoid it.</dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><b><i>Examples of redundant phrases to avoid in technical writing:</i></b><ul>
                        <li><i>"add an additional"</i> - The word <i>"additional"</i> is
                          redundant.</li>
                        <li><i>"during the course of"</i> - The words <i>"course of"</i> are
                          repetitive.</li>
                        <li><i>"end result"</i> - The word <i>"end"</i> is not needed.</li>
                        <li><i>"final outcome"</i> - The word <i>"final"</i> is repetitive.</li>
                        <li><i>"in order to"</i> - The words <i>"in order"</i> are not needed.</li>
                        <li><i>"merge together"</i> - The word <i>"together"</i> is redundant.</li>
                        <li><i>"since the time you last"</i> - You can omit <i>"the time"</i> and
                          just use <i>"since you last</i>. This also applies without the word
                            <i>"last"</i>. For example, <i>"since the time you opened the file"</i>
                          should be <i>"since you last opened the file"</i>.</li>
                        <li><i>"still remains"</i> - The word <i>"still"</i> is unnecessary.</li>
                        <li><i>"unintentional mistake"</i> - All mistakes are
                          <i>"unintentional"</i>, so that word is redundant.</li>
                        <li><i>"variety of different"</i> - If there is a variety of something, it
                          is implied that they are different, thus <i>"different"</i> is
                          redundant.</li>
                        <li>Avoid using unnecessary adverbs that are NOT specifically used for some
                          sort of emphasis (for example, <i>"very"</i>, <i>"little"</i>,
                            <i>"pretty"</i>, <i>"extremely"</i>).</li>
                      </ul></p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Run-on Sentences</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> A <term>run-on</term> sentence is one that
                    joins clauses that could each stand on its own as a sentence without any
                    punctuation or words to link them. Fused sentences must be either divided into
                    separate sentences or joined by adding conjunctive words or punctuation. Always
                    consider the general flow and the length of the sentences to decide whether to
                    separate them or add conjunctions.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Structure of Paragraphs</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> The ideas in all the sentences in a
                    paragraph should be interconnected. If you introduce a completely new thought,
                    you need to start a new paragraph. The ideas should also flow in proper sequence
                    so that you do not confuse the reader. Also, do not make the paragraphs too long
                    because your readers might get disinterested and feel like they are inundated
                    with too much information at once.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Structure of Sentences</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> Try to avoid starting a sentence with one
                    kind of structure and then changing to another later in the sentence. Doing so
                    can confuse your readers.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Structure of Topics</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> Make sure the whole topic has a good flow.
                    Usually, you will want to introduce the concept, then provide the specific
                    content that will provide the reader with all the information they need, then
                    wrap it up with some sort of conclusion that summarizes everything or clearly
                    indicates the end of the topic. </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Transitions</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> Each paragraph should transition smoothly
                    from the preceding paragraph. Without good transitions, the reader will end up
                    backtracking repeatedly and will often become confused or frustrated.</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Basic Technical Writing Rules</dt>
          <dd>The following rules are suggestions in regards to technical writing standards:<p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Ambiguity</dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p>
                      <u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> One of the most important things in
                      technical writing is to make sure the information that you write is very
                      clear. Use the following rules to help avoid confusion:<ul>
                        <li>Always proofread your writing carefully to identify possible
                          ambiguity.</li>
                        <li>It is also always a good idea to have someone else proofread your
                          writing because it may seem clear to you, but if it is ambiguous to them,
                          in any way, then it is probably also ambiguous to your normal
                          audience.</li>
                        <li>Be careful when using pronouns (<i>"this</i>, <i>"these"</i>,
                            <i>"it"</i>). Always ask yourself if there is any chance that the reader
                          will not know exactly what items the pronouns are referencing. See the
                            <xref href="#doc-rules/vague-pronouns-dlentry" format="dita"><i>Vague
                              Pronouns</i> section</xref> in the Grammar Rules for more specific
                          information.</li>
                      </ul></p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Audience</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> Always consider who your audience might be
                    for your specific topic. Once you identify who you are writing it for, ask
                    yourself what they need to know and make sure you include everything that
                    audience needs to know.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Avoid <i>Fancy</i> Words</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> The best writing is simple and concise,
                    with the relevant ideas delivered in a clear and direct manner. Avoid using
                      <i>fancy</i> words that might be perceived as pretentious or more elaborate
                    than necessary. Your audience will appreciate reading words that are simple and
                    to the point. They care about your content being clear and accurate, not how big
                    your vocabulary is.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Avoid Passive Voice</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> Particularly in technical writing, you
                    should avoid using a <term>passive voice</term> whenever possible.
                      <term>Passive</term> writing comes across as sounding weak and ambiguous,
                    while using in an active voice makes your writing seem more alive and clear.
                    Basically, passive voice happens when the object of a sentence is placed in the
                    beginning of a sentence instead of the end. In other words, the object becomes
                    the subject. For example, <i>"I mailed the letter"</i> becomes passive if it is
                    changed to <i>"The letter was mailed by me"</i>.<dl>
                      <dlentry>
                        <dt>How to recognize a <i>Passive Voice</i> sentence</dt>
                        <dd>The two most basic things to ask yourself are:<ul>
                            <li>Is the object in the subject position?</li>
                            <li>Can I add <i>"by [so-and-so]"</i> to the end?</li>
                          </ul></dd>
                        <dd>Also, keep this in mind: All passive sentences include a form of the
                          verb <i>"to be"</i> (such as <i>"was"</i>, <i>"were"</i> or <i>"is"</i>),
                          BUT not all sentences that have those verbs are passive. It is easy to
                          recognize sentences that include a form of <i>"to be"</i> but you need to
                          ask yourself the two questions above to determine if it is in the passive
                          voice.</dd>
                      </dlentry>
                      <dlentry>
                        <dt><b><i>Examples from the UG:</i></b></dt>
                        <dd><b>Passive voice:</b>
                          <i>The New Document wizard allows you to select custom templates that
                              <b>were created in previous sessions by you or other users</b>.</i>
                          [INCORRECT]</dd>
                        <dd><b>Active voice:</b>
                          <i>The New Document wizard allows you to select custom templates that
                              <b>you or other users created in previous sessions</b>.</i>
                          [CORRECT]</dd>
                      </dlentry>
                    </dl></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Avoid Using Figures of Speech</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> Always avoid figures of speech, such as
                      <term>similes</term> and <term>metaphors</term>.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Consistency</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> By nature, technical documentation is
                    certainly not much fun to read and it might seem that meticulous consistency
                    would make it even more boring. That logic might true for general writing, but
                    most of the time the only reason why people read technical documentation is
                    because they are stuck and need to figure out how to do something specific.
                    Using meticulous consistency in technical writing will allow the user to find
                    information quickly and help them to understand it better. </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Contractions</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> Contractions are appropriate only for
                    conversational use and for informal writing, but never for technical writing.
                    Avoid using them in the User Guide.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Include Links to Other Documentation</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> Include links to other pertinent sections
                    of the documentation (or other resources) whenever possible. You want to make it
                    as convenient as possible for the users to navigate to other sections, topics,
                    or resources that might help them to find the information they need.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Make Important Content Noticeable</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> Use various structural elements to make
                    topics more visually appealing and readable. It is a good practice to break up
                    long blocks of text with some sort of contrast. Use titles, lists or notes to
                    create contrast and emphasize important informations, and always use concrete
                    language.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Markup</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> People read technical documentation
                    differently than they do other types of writing. They tend to skim through
                    documentation to quickly find the information they need. This means good
                    technical documentation needs to have a lot of structured markup to emphasize
                    content and point the reader directly to information they need for the specific
                    subject. Also, use a variety of structural elements to emphasize and break up
                    blocks of content.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Sections</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> Use sections to separate multiple subjects
                    in the same topic, to create breaks in long blocks of text, and to introduce
                    procedures. The basic idea of using sections is to allow users to quickly find
                    the specific part of the topic that contains the information they are looking
                    for, without needing to read other content that may not be relevant to their
                    specific need. Each section should contain a good title that describes the
                    content of that section. This will also help readers find specific information
                    more quickly. </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Short Sentences and Paragraphs</dt>
                  <dd>
                    <u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> You should try to keep sentences short
                      because they are easier to read and understand. Each sentence should have one
                      basic thought. More than that creates complexity and invites confusion.
                      Likewise, paragraphs should also as short as possible because our brains take
                      in information better when it is broken into small chunks. Also, all the
                      sentences in each paragraph should be interconnected to a single idea.
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Teach</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> Good technical documentation should be
                    focused on teaching or guiding the audience, rather than simply providing
                    arbitrary information. The purpose of technical documentation is to teach a new
                    user to become of expert and then support them once they are.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Use Structure for Procedural or Task-Related Information</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> Do not bury task-related information
                    within dense paragraphs. This will make your readers very frustrated when they
                    are trying to learn how to do a specific task. Use structured components to make
                    your instructions more visible and appealing. Follow the subsequent guidelines
                    whenever documenting procedures.</dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><b>Guidelines for documenting procedures:</b><ul>
                        <li>It is helpful to use titles for procedures, especially when the
                          procedure is surrounded by a large amount of content. This helps the
                          reader to quickly find the procedure that they are looking for amongst
                          blocks of other content.</li>
                        <li>Only use <term>unordered lists</term> (<codeph>ul</codeph>) when steps
                          do not need to occur in sequence.</li>
                        <li>Always use <term>ordered lists</term> (<codeph>ol</codeph>) when the
                          steps must occur in a sequence and make sure the items are in proper
                          order.</li>
                        <li>Each step in a procedure should be an action in the sequence.</li>
                        <li>If possible, eliminate steps that lack action. Instead, put
                          informational content after the action within a step, or put it outside
                          the step (for example, in a <codeph>paragraph</codeph> or <codeph>step
                            result</codeph>).</li>
                        <li>Use sub-steps rather than putting too many tasks within one step.</li>
                        <li>Clearly identify optional steps. For example, put the word
                            <i>"optional"</i> in parentheses at the beginning of the step.</li>
                        <li>Identify conditional steps with words such as <i>"if"</i> and
                            <i>"then"</i>.</li>
                        <li>Use an additional list within a list for branching steps, such as
                          alternative methods.</li>
                        <li>Edit and rewrite ambiguous steps. Proofread the entire procedure, or
                          better yet, have someone else read the procedure, and if there is any
                          ambiguity in any of the steps, the procedure needs to be revised. </li>
                      </ul></p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></section>
  </body>
</topic>
