<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="specificGrammarRulesConjunctionsAdverbs">
  <title>Specific Grammar Rules in Regards to Conjunctions and Adverbs</title>
  <body>
    <p>There are a lot of rules that apply to conjunctions and adverbs in English writing. The
      following are some of the most important grammar rules: <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Coordinating Conjunctions vs. Subordinating Conjunctions</dt>
          <dd><b>Description:</b> There are two types of conjunctions (coordinating and
            subordinating) and they both can be used to join clauses. Various rules for conjunctions
            can become very complicated.</dd>
          <dd>
            <p><u><b>Rules to follow:</b></u> The most important things to remember are how to
              punctuate both types and that subordinating conjunctions require more than one clause
              to avoid a sentence fragment.</p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <ul id="ul_w4y_kf3_kw">
              <li id="coordinating-conjunctions-li"><b>Coordinating Conjunctions</b> - A coordinating conjunction joins two main
                clauses with equal emphasis, or connects any other grammatical unit.<ul
                  id="ul_x4y_kf3_kw">
                  <li><b><i>The seven coordinating conjunctions:</i></b>
                    <i>"and"</i>, <i>"or"</i>, <i>"but"</i>, <i>"nor"</i>, <i>"so"</i>,
                    <i>"for"</i>, <i>"yet"</i>.</li>
                  <li><u><b>Punctuation rules to follow:</b></u> There are three patterns for
                    punctuating <term>coordinating conjunctions</term>:<ol id="ol_y4y_kf3_kw">
                      <li><b>Connecting two independent clauses</b> - When you connect two
                        independent clauses with a coordinating conjunction, use a comma before the
                        conjunction. {[Main Clause 1], [Coordinating Conjunction] [Main Clause
                              2]}<p><b><i>Example:</i></b>
                          <i>"The sample document contains elements from various namespaces<b>,
                              so</b> you need to use CSS Level 3 extensions to associate specific
                            properties with those elements.</i></p></li>
                      <li><b>Connecting two items (other than two main clauses)</b> - Do not use a
                        comma. {[Item 1] [Coordinating Conjunction] [Item
                            2]}<p><b><i>Example:</i></b>
                          <i>"These suggestions <b>and</b> guidelines are meant to help
                          anyone.</i></p></li>
                      <li><b>Connecting three or more items in a series</b> - Use a comma after each
                        item (except for the last) and before the conjunction. {[Item 1], [Item 2],
                        [Coordinating Conjunction] [Item 3]}<p><b><i>Example:</i></b>
                          <i>" It is important to make documentation clear, concise<b>, and</b>
                            comprehensible." </i></p></li>
                    </ol></li>
                </ul></li>
              <li id="subordinating-conjunctions-li"><b>Subordinating Conjunctions</b> - A subordinating conjunction emphasizes the
                idea in the main clause more than the one in the subordinate clause. Also, it causes
                the clause that it appears in to become dependent. Therefore, it will be a sentence
                fragment unless it is joined to an independent clause.<p><i><b>Example of a
                      fragment:</b> With this option in effect, the referenced schema document is
                    loaded. <u>Unless</u> the absolute URI is the same as a schema document already
                    loaded.</i>
                  <b>(The second sentence is a fragment)</b></p><p><i><b>Example of a complete
                      sentence:</b> With this option in effect, the referenced schema document is
                    loaded <u>unless</u> the absolute URI is the same as a schema document already
                    loaded.</i>
                  <b>(One complete sentence)</b></p><ul id="ul_z4y_kf3_kw">
                  <li><b><i>Examples of subordinating conjunctions:</i></b>
                    <i>"after"</i>, <i>"although"</i>, <i>"as"</i>, <i>"because"</i>, <i>"if"</i>,
                      <i>"since"</i>, <i>"though"</i>, <i>"unless"</i>, <i>"whenever"</i>,
                      <i>"while"</i>.</li>
                  <li><u><b>Punctuation rules to follow:</b></u> Generally, there are two patterns
                    for punctuating <term>subordinating conjunctions</term>:<ol id="ol_apy_kf3_kw">
                      <li>The main clause followed by a subordinate clause. Typically, a comma is
                        not necessary. {[Main Clause] [Subordinate Clause]}<p><b><i>Example:</i></b>
                          <i>"Saving the file is not allowed <b>unless</b> the file is already
                            checked out.</i></p></li>
                      <li>A subordinate clause followed by the main clause. Typically, use a comma
                        after the subordinate clause. {[Subordinate Clause], [Main
                              Clause]}<p><b><i>Example:</i></b>
                          <i>"DITA is an XML format<b>, although</b> you do not have to write raw
                            XML to create and edit DITA topics.</i></p></li>
                    </ol></li>
                </ul></li>
            </ul>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <dl>
        <dlentry id="conjunctive-adverbs-dlentry">
          <dt>Conjunctive Adverbs</dt>
          <dd><b>Description:</b><term>Conjunctive adverbs</term> are simply adverbs that connect
            two independent clauses. They can sometimes move almost anywhere in a sentence and they
            are usually used to link the ideas from two or more sentences, but they can also be used
            to connect two independent main clauses in the same sentence (although this is probably
            rare in technical documentation). Usually, they are placed at the beginning of the
            second clause since it provides a logical transition from one clause to the other. When
            used to connect two main clauses a semicolon needs to be used between the first clause
            and the conjunctive adverb, but again, this is rare in technical documentation. Most of
            the time, the conjunctive adverbs need to be separated from the clause with one or two
            commas.</dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b><i>Examples of conjunctive adverbs:</i></b>
              <i>"accordingly"</i>, <i>"also"</i>, <i>"consequently"</i>, <i>"for example"</i>,
                <i>"for instance"</i>, <i>"furthermore"</i>, <i>"hence"</i>, <i>"however"</i>,
                <i>"in fact"</i>, <i>"instead"</i>, <i>"likewise"</i>, <i>"otherwise"</i>,
                <i>"nevertheless"</i>, <i>"therefore"</i>, <i>"thus"</i>.</p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><u><b>Rules to follow:</b></u> For the purposes of User Guide, follow these
                guidelines:<ul id="ul_bpy_kf3_kw">
                <li>Except in some very rare circumstances, only use <term>conjunctive
                    adverbs</term> to connect the ideas from multiple sentences.</li>
                <li>Most of the time, they should be used at the beginning of a sentence or as the
                  first words inside parentheses.</li>
                <li>More often than not, they should be followed by a comma, and if used in the
                  middle of a sentence, they should also be preceded with a comma (the word
                    <i>"thus"</i> is usually only preceded by a comma when used in the middle of a
                  sentence). <note>Keep in mind that some of these words can also be used as other
                    grammatical constructs (for example, <i>"accordingly"</i> and <i>"instead"</i>
                    are often used as regular adverbs in various parts of sentences without being
                    preceded or followed by a comma). However, when any of them are used as a
                      <term>conjunctive adverb</term>, the above rules apply.<ul id="ul_cpy_kf3_kw">
                      <li><i>"however"</i> - Somewhat of a special case since it can also be used as
                        a normal verb that means <i>in whatever way</i> or <i>to whatever degree</i>
                        (for example, <i>"However you decide to do it, ..."</i>). Regardless,
                        whenever it is used as a <term>conjunctive adverb</term>, follow the rules
                        above.</li>
                      <li><i>"also"</i> - This is a rather flexible adverb and can be used in
                        multiple other ways (for example, as a <term>focusing adverb</term>) without
                        needing punctuation before or after. Regardless, when used as a
                          <term>conjunctive adverb</term>, follow the rules above. </li>
                    </ul></note></li>
              </ul></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Position of Adverbs in a Sentence</dt>
          <dd><b>Description:</b> There are so many complex rules for where to position different
            types of adverbs within a sentence that it is not even worth discussing most of them.
            Essentially, an <term>adverb</term> is a word that modifies another word or phrase. In
            most cases, you should make sure the adverb is placed as close to the word or phrase
            that it is modifying as possible and you should always pay attention to how the
            placement of the adverb can change the meaning of the sentence. For more specific rules
            in regards to the placement of adverbs, the following website defines some very clear
            rules for various situations: <xref format="html"
              href="http://www.englishpractice.com/improve/position-adverbs-2/" scope="external"/>.<p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><b><term>Focusing Adverbs</term> (<i>"also"</i>, <i>"only"</i>,
                        <i>"either"</i>, <i>"neither"</i>, <i>"just"</i>, <i>"mostly"</i>):</b></dt>
                  <dd>For the purposes of our documentation, we should concentrate on making sure
                    certain <term>focusing adverbs</term> are placed in the proper position because
                    they represent the most common errors and improper positioning of these adverbs
                    can lead to sentences that are awkward or where the meaning is unclear. Since
                    focusing adverbs point to a particular part of a sentence, the meaning conveyed
                    often depends upon their position. The adverbs <i>"also"</i> and <i>"only"</i>
                    are the most common examples that are used in our
                          documentation.<p><b><i>"Only"</i></b> - Consider how the placement of the
                      word <i>"only"</i> changes the meaning in the following examples:<ul
                        id="ul_dpy_kf3_kw">
                        <li><b><i>Example 1:</i></b>
                          <i><b>Only</b> John gave Paul one dollar.</i> [No one else besides John
                          game him a dollar].</li>
                        <li><b><i>Example 2:</i></b>
                          <i>John gave <b>only</b> Paul one dollar.</i> [John gave Paul a dollar and
                          no one else].</li>
                        <li><b><i>Example 3:</i></b>
                          <i>John gave Paul <b>only</b> one dollar.</i> [John gave Paul one dollar
                          and nothing more].</li>
                        <li><b><i>Example 4:</i></b>
                          <i>John <b>only</b> gave Paul one dollar.</i> [John did nothing else
                          besides giving Paul a dollar.]</li>
                      </ul></p><p><b><i>"Also</i></b> - Consider how the placement of the word
                        <i>"also"</i> changes the meaning in the following examples:<ul
                        id="ul_epy_kf3_kw">
                        <li><b><i>Example 1:</i></b>
                          <i><b>Also</b>, John thinks that Paul should stop smoking.</i> [In
                          addition to other ideas, John thinks Paul should stop smoking.]</li>
                        <li><b><i>Example 2:</i></b>
                          <i>John thinks that Paul <b>also</b> should stop smoking.</i> [John thinks
                          Paul should stop smoking, along with other people.]</li>
                        <li><b><i>Example 3:</i></b>
                          <i>John thinks Paul should <b>also</b> stop smoking.</i> [John thinks Paul
                          should stop smoking, along with stopping other things.]</li>
                        <li><b><i>Example 4:</i></b>
                          <i>John <b>also</b> thinks that Paul should stop smoking.</i> [Someone
                          else and John think that Paul should stop smoking.]</li>
                      </ul></p></dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><u><b>Rules to follow:</b></u> Most of the time it is best to place focusing
                      adverbs in front of and next to the word or words they are modifying. However,
                      be aware that doing so will not always eliminate ambiguity. Therefore, you
                      have to also rely on the context and consider the meaning of the sentence
                      based upon the placement of the adverb. If you find it difficult to decide
                      where to place them, try rephrasing the sentence entirely.</p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p></dd>
          <dd>
            <p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><b><i>Using Adverbs with Modal Verbs</i> (<i>"can"</i>, <i>"could"</i>,
                        <i>"may"</i>, <i>"might"</i>, <i>"must"</i>, <i>"will"</i>, <i>"would"</i>,
                        <i>"shall"</i>, <i>"should"</i>):</b></dt>
                  <dd>A <term>modal verb</term> is a type of auxiliary verb that is used to indicate
                    the likelihood, possibility, necessity, or ability. Deciding how to position
                    adverbs in relation to model verbs can also become very confusing, especially
                    when the modal verb is used with another verb (such a form of the
                      <term>infinitive verb</term>
                    <i>"to be"</i>.</dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p>Consider the following examples:<ul id="ul_fpy_kf3_kw">
                        <li><b><i>Example 1:</i></b>
                          <i>The sample file <b>also</b> can be found in the SDK distribution.</i>
                          [Awkward]</li>
                        <li><b><i>Example 2:</i></b>
                          <i>The sample file can <b>also</b> be found in the SDK distribution.</i>
                          [Better]</li>
                      </ul></p>
                  </dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><u><b>Rules to follow:</b></u> While both of the previous examples are
                      grammatically correct and they both have the same meaning, the second one
                      sounds and reads better, and you never want to cause your reader to pause to
                      consider the awkwardness of the flow. There are a lot of exceptions to this
                      rule, but MOST of the time, you should use the following word order when using
                      this type of combination: <b><i>[Modal Verb] + [Adverb] + [Verb]</i></b>.</p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
