<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="tenses">
  <title>Tenses</title>
  <body>
    <p>There are a lot of very complicated rules when it comes to using tenses in English writing.
      The proper use of tenses is important because improper use could lead to ambiguity and the
      intended meaning can be inadvertently changed if the wrong tense is used. Without making it
      more complicated than it needs to be, the following rules are simply guidelines for using
      tenses to help avoid glaring mistakes: <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Consistency in Tenses</dt>
          <dd><b>Description:</b> If you shift the tense of verbs from one tense to another without
            a clear reason, it can confuse your readers. There are instances where it is necessary
            to change tense, even within the same sentence, but it should only be done when the
            reason is clear or to make things even more clear.</dd>
          <dd>
            <p><u><b>Rules to follow:</b></u> Follow these rules in regards to tense consistency:<ul
                id="ul_kpy_kf3_kw">
                <li>In general, keep tenses consistent within sentences and paragraphs.</li>
                <li>Avoid changing tenses when there is no time change for an action.</li>
                <li>If you do need to change tenses, make sure that there is a clear reason for
                  it.</li>
                <li>Always avoid ambiguity.</li>
              </ul></p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b><i>Example:</i></b>
              <i>Write the description of the problem that <b>was</b> encountered, <b>send</b> it to
                our support team, and we <b>will reply</b> as soon as possible.</i> Notice that
              past, present, and future tenses are used in the same sentence. The reason for the
              switch to future tense (<i>"we will reply"</i>) is quite clear. The part of the
              sentence that is in past tense (<i>"that was encountered"</i>) could certainly be
              omitted without changing the meaning, but there is absolutely nothing wrong with
              keeping it because it simply makes it even more clear.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Future Tense</dt>
          <dd><b>Description:</b> In English grammar, future tense is not considered a true tense
            because tenses express the time of a state or action and the future has not yet
            happened. Obviously, you need to future tense when referring to something that will
            clearly happen in the future, but in professional writing, using present tense (whenever
            possible) enhances your message by making it more clear and precise. However, in
            technical documentation it is much more common and acceptable to use future tense. This
            is because the instructions often refer to events that will happen in the future or that
            depend on certain conditions or actions before the events will occur.</dd>
          <dd>
            <p><u><b>Rule to follow:</b></u> Avoid future tense when present tense makes the meaning
              more clear. It is fine to use it when you are referring to something that will
              specifically happen in the future or requires certain things to happen before it will
              occur.</p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b><i>Example of when NOT to use it:</i></b>
              <i>Our sample documentation framework <b>will be</b> very simple.</i> This was an
              actual example from our User Guide. Notice how ambiguous this sentence is. It will be
              simple when? Why is it not simple now? Does the user need to do something to make it
              simple? Clearly, this sentence should be <i>"Our sample documentation framework
                  <b>is</b> very simple."</i></p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b><i>Example of when you should use it:</i></b>
              <i>We <b>will reply</b> as soon as possible.</i> You have to use future tense in this
              case because the action will very clearly happen in the future.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Progressive Tense</dt>
          <dd><b>Description:</b> The <term>progressive tense</term> is formed with a form of the
            helping <i>"to be"</i> verb, plus the present participle of a main verb with an
              <i>"ing"</i> ending. The use of progressive tenses is not grammatically incorrect, but
            it requires the use of extra auxiliary verbs and makes your ideas less precise, and
            possibly less clear. Particularly in technical writing, it should only be used to refer
            to something that is very clearly an ongoing action and present tense cannot be used in
            the precise context.</dd>
          <dd>
            <p><u><b>Rule to follow:</b></u> Simply avoid progressive tense unless it is absolutely
              necessary (for example, when referring to a specific on-going event).</p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b><i>Example of when NOT to use it:</i></b>
              <i>Oxygen <b>is changing</b> the way you edit documents.</i> This sentence should be
                <i>"Oxygen <b>changes</b> the way you edit documents."</i> Notice that the second
              version is more powerful and precise.</p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b><i>Example of when you should use it:</i></b>
              <i>Unfortunately, you cannot minimize the dialog box while the operation <b>is
                  processing</b>.</i> In this instance, it is actually better to use progressive
              tense since it is referring to the time period during an ongoing event. You could
              replace <i>"is processing"</i> with <i>"processes"</i>, but the progressive form is
              actually more clear and precise in this case.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
