<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="commonGrammarRrrors">
  <title>Common Grammar Errors</title>
  <body>
    <p>The following grammar errors are some of the most common mistakes that are made while writing
      in general: <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Dangling Modifiers</dt>
          <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Avoid <term>dangling modifiers</term> to ensure descriptive words
            or phrases are clear.</dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b>Description:</b> This happens when a descriptive phrase does not apply to the noun
              that immediately follows it. In other words, a word or phrase that modifies a word not
              clearly stated in the sentence.</p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b><i>Example of an error:</i></b>
              <i>Before performing the merge, the target item needs to be ready for the
                operation.</i></p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b>Problem:</b> It is unclear what is "performing the merge". Is this implying that
              the user is performing the merge, or is the "target item", or maybe "the
              operation"?</p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b>Solution:</b> To fix this problem, try rearranging the structure of the sentence
              or be more specific. <i>For example: Before you perform the merge, make sure the
                target item is ready for the operation.</i></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Incomplete Comparisons</dt>
          <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Always complete comparisons.</dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b>Description:</b> When you are implying that something is being compared to
              something else, you must always clarify what you are comparing it to. Otherwise, it
              will be difficult for the reader to discern what the comparison actually means.</p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b><i>Example of an error:</i></b>
              <i>Our software is more powerful and efficient.</i></p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b>Problem:</b> The software is more powerful and efficient <b>than what</b>?</p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b>Solution:</b> Simply finish the comparison. <i>For example: Our software is more
                powerful and efficient than all other XML editors.</i></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Misusing Homonyms</dt>
          <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Be careful with <term>homonyms</term> since spell checkers will
            not detect them and avoid using them if you are unsure of which one to use.</dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b>Description:</b> It is impossible for spell checkers to detect misused homonyms. A
                <term>homonym</term> is a word that is spelled the same way as another word but has
              a different meaning.</p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b><i>Examples of homonyms:</i></b>
              <i>"affect"/"effect"</i>, <i>"illicit"/"elicit"</i>, <i>"complement"/"compliment"</i>,
                <i>"obtain"/"attain"</i>, <i>"personal"/"personnel"</i>, <i>"suit"/"suite"</i>,
                <i>"principal"/"principle"</i>, <i>"write"/"right"</i></p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b>Problem:</b> The obvious problem with misusing homonyms is that your content will
              have unintended meaning.</p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b>Solution:</b> Since spell checkers will not detect misused homonyms, you need to
              proofread your work carefully. Also, if you are not completely sure about the
              difference between certain homonyms, avoid using those words entirely.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Sentence Fragments</dt>
          <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Avoid sentence fragments by realizing that every sentence must
            express a complete thought.</dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b>Description:</b> Quite simply, a <term>sentence fragment</term> is a piece of a
              sentence that is disconnected from the main clause and cannot stand by itself as a
              complete sentence.</p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b><i>Example:</i></b>
              <i>Because the URL alone might point to a different item than the one you want and a
                peg revision is needed.</i></p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b>Problem:</b> This fragment does not express a complete thought. The subordinating
              conjunction <i>"because"</i> is dependent upon an independent clause that is missing
              in this sentence fragment.</p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b>Solution:</b> Every sentence must have at least one main clause and express a
              complete thought. It is important to proofread your work carefully to identify
              possible sentence fragments.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="vague-pronouns-dlentry">
          <dt>Vague Pronouns</dt>
          <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Always make sure it is clear what pronouns are referring to.</dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b>Description:</b> A pronoun should refer clearly to the word or words it replaces
              (called the <term>antecedent</term>) elsewhere in the sentence or in a previous
              sentence. Pronouns are words that take the place of a noun (such as <i>"you"</i>,
                <i>"it"</i>, <i>"who"</i>, <i>"they"</i>, <i>"everyone"</i>).</p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b><i>Example of an error:</i></b>
              <i>Maximize the reuse possibilities for keys in topics by reflecting different values
                depending on <b>their</b> defined scope.</i></p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b>Problem:</b> What is <i>"their"</i> referring to? It is probably referring to the
              defined scope of <i>"keys"</i>, but with the way this sentence is written, it could
              also be referring to the scope of <i>"topics"</i>, <i>"values"</i>, or possibly even
                <i>"reuse possibilities"</i>.</p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b>Solution:</b> If more than one word could be the antecedent (or if no specific
              antecedent is present) you should edit the sentence to make the meaning more clear.
                <i>For example: Maximize the reuse possibilities for keys in topics by reflecting
                different values depending on the defined scope of the keys.</i></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
