<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="generalStyleRules">
  <title>General Style Rules</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <data name="title" value="See capitalization and hyphenation rules for titles"
        audience="styleguide"/>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>The following <i>Style Rules</i> provide guidelines for general documentation style
      choices.</p>
    <p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Capitalization in Hyphenated Words in Titles</dt>
          <dd><b>Description:</b> This rule defines how to capitalize hyphenated words in
            titles.</dd>
          <dd>
            <p><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Always capitalize the first letter of the first word before
              the hyphen (regardless of the type of word or its length). For the subsequent
              words, consider them separate words and follow the same rules as for<xref
                href="#generalStyleRules/titles-headings-dlentry">Titles/Headings</xref>.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="titles-headings-dlentry">
          <dt>Capitalization in Titles/Headings</dt>
          <dd><b>Description:</b> These rules are meant to define how to capitalize words in
            titles and headings in our documentation.</dd>
          <dd>
            <p><u><b>Rules:</b></u> Follow these style rules for the User Guide:</p>
            <p>
              <ul id="ul_sdk_wf3_kw">
                <li>Capitalize the first letter of the first word, regardless of the number of
                  letters or type of word.</li>
                <li>Capitalize the first letter of all nouns.</li>
                <li>Capitalize the first letter of all verbs.</li>
                <li>Capitalize all letters of acronyms, unless the common naming convention for
                  a specific acronym dictates otherwise (for example, <i>"HiDPI"</i>).</li>
                <li>Capitalize the first letter of all other words that have at least 4 letters,
                  with the exception of the prepositions and conjunctions listed below.</li>
                <li>DO NOT capitalize the prepositions <i>"from"</i>, <i>"like"</i>,
                  <i>"into"</i>, <i>"over"</i>, <i>"with"</i>, or the conjunction
                  <i>"that"</i>.</li>
                <li>DO NOT capitalize words with 3 or fewer letters (except for nouns, verbs,
                  and the first word), including the following words: <i>"a"</i>, <i>"an"</i>,
                  <i>"and"</i>, <i>"as"</i>, <i>"at"</i>, <i>"but"</i>, <i>"by"</i>,
                  <i>"for"</i>, <i>"in"</i>, <i>"it"</i>, <i>"of"</i>, "nor", "on", "or",
                  "the", "to", "up".</li>
                <li>DO NOT capitalize specific names of code components (such as the names of
                  elements, attributes, etc.) Use proper tags (<codeph>codeph</codeph>) for
                  them, even in titles.</li>
                <li>When listing company names or products in titles, use the same
                  capitalization format that they use.</li>
              </ul>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Company or Product Names</dt>
          <dd><b>Description:</b> This rule defines how to write company and product names.</dd>
          <dd>
            <p><u><b>Rule:</b></u> When listing company names or products, use the same
              capitalization format and naming convention that the company uses (for example,
              <i>"oXygen"</i> or <i>"XProc"</i>).</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Icons</dt>
          <dd><b>Description:</b> These rules are meant as a guideline when listing interface
            icons for actions (such as toolbar and menu actions).</dd>
          <dd>
            <p><u><b>Rules:</b></u> Follow these style rules for the User Guide:</p>
            <p>
              <ul id="ul_tdk_wf3_kw">
                <li>Whenever listing an action that has an icon on the toolbar or in a menu,
                  include an image of the icon before the name of the action.</li>
                <li>When using icons before the name of an action, do not add a space between
                  the icon and the action name.</li>
                <li>Put both the icon and the name of the action inside a
                  <codeph>uicontrol</codeph>.</li>
                <li>Whenever possible, use a maximum height of 16 pixels.</li>
                <li>Avoid using layers, transparency, or other metadata.</li>
                <li>Use a white background.</li>
                <li>Use PNG for the format. When using GIMP, deselect all of the <i>save as</i>
                  options. </li>
              </ul>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Images</dt>
          <dd><b>Description:</b> These rules are meant as a guideline when using images in the
            documentation.</dd>
          <dd>
            <p><u><b>Rules:</b></u> Follow these style rules for the User Guide:</p>
            <p>
              <ul id="ul_udk_wf3_kw">
                <li>Generally, it is best to only include images to supplement the content and
                  provide some sort of useful context for the reader. For example, it is not
                  necessary to include images for features or dialog boxes that are self
                  explanatory.</li>
                <li>Unless the image is very small and appears in the middle of a block of text,
                  it is always best to include the image in a <codeph>fig</codeph> element and
                  include a title.</li>
                <li>The maximum height and width is 650 pixels, but it is always best to make
                  the images as small as possible without sacrificing resolution.</li>
                <li>Use a white background.</li>
                <li>Use PNG for the format. When using GIMP, deselect all of the <i>save as</i>
                  options. </li>
              </ul>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Links</dt>
          <dd><b>Description:</b> It is better to include more links than what is necessary,
            rather than leaving your readers without the means for easily navigating to other
            pertinent content.</dd>
          <dd>
            <p><u><b>Rules:</b></u> Provide links whenever more clarification could be helpful.
              The types of things that should be linked include:</p>
            <p>
              <ul id="ul_vdk_wf3_kw">
                <li>Pronouns and other specific terms that may not be common knowledge. Glossary
                  terms should be used in many of these cases.</li>
                <li>When listing a specific option (such as options in a Preference page,
                  specific dialog box, menu, etc.) a link should be included to reference the
                  specific topic that describes the option.</li>
                <li>Whenever referring to certain specifications or other external resources,
                  provide links to those specific resources.</li>
                <li>Use cross references to other topics that have more information about
                  specific ideas.</li>
                <li>Use related links to other topics that include similar information about the
                  current topic.</li>
              </ul>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Lists</dt>
          <dd><b>Description:</b> The various types of lists are indented differently in the
            output and therefore certain list types look better in particular situations. These
            rules are meant to define what type of lists to use in certain
            situations.<p><u><b>Rules:</b></u> Use the following guidelines for the type
              of lists to use in the User Guide:</p><p>
                <ul id="ul_wdk_wf3_kw">
                  <li>The most important rule to follow is that you should always consider the
                    most commonly used output format and try to provide a visually appealing
                    contrast for lists. You do not want your readers to become discouraged with a
                    seemingly never ending wall of unordered lists (or other types of lists, one
                    after another). </li>
                  <li>When describing actions or options (for example, the topics that describe
                    the preference pages), it is better to use <term>definition lists</term>
                    (<codeph>dl</codeph>), especially for parent nodes. <term>Unordered
                      lists</term> (<codeph>ul</codeph>) can be used in the <codeph>dd</codeph>
                    elements for lists inside the definition lists to provide contrast.</li>
                  <li>When documenting procedural information, use <term>unordered lists</term>
                    (<codeph>ul</codeph>) when steps do not need to occur in sequence.</li>
                  <li>When documenting procedural information, always use <term>ordered
                    lists</term> (<codeph>ol</codeph>) when the steps must occur in a
                    sequence.</li>
                </ul>
              </p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Notes</dt>
          <dd><b>Description:</b> These rules are meant to define when and how to use note
            elements.</dd>
          <dd>
            <p><u><b>Rules:</b></u> Follow these style rules in regards to notes in the User
              Guide:</p>
            <p>
              <ul id="ul_xdk_wf3_kw">
                <li>If possible, avoid adding consecutive notes.</li>
                <li>If necessary to add consecutive notes, then use different types.</li>
                <li>Add a note when:<ul id="ul_ydk_wf3_kw">
                  <li>You want to emphasize something important.</li>
                  <li>The idea does not fit with the flow of the section.</li>
                </ul></li>
              </ul>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Parentheses</dt>
          <dd><b>Description:</b> These rules are meant to define when and how to use
            parentheses.</dd>
          <dd>
            <p><u><b>Rules:</b></u> Parentheses can be used to set apart additional information
              that is useful to the reader but not integral to the rest of the sentence. Follow
              these style rules for the User Guide:</p>
            <p>
              <ul id="ul_zdk_wf3_kw">
                <li>When using them in normal writing (as opposed to some sort of code), use
                  parentheses (brackets) instead of square brackets, hyphens, semicolons, or any
                  other symbol.</li>
                <li>Typically, you should place text that is surrounded by parentheses inside a
                  sentence, rather than as a sentence of its own. In most instance in our
                  documentation, if it is a complete sentence of its own, the content should not
                  be in parentheses.</li>
                <li>Whatever is inside the parentheses, it must not be grammatically integral to
                  the surrounding sentence. If it is, the sentence must be rewritten.</li>
                <li>Follow the  <xref
                    href="punctuationStyleRules.dita#punctuationStyleRules/punctuation-inside-parentheses-dlentry"
                    >punctuation inside parentheses rules</xref>.</li>
              </ul>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Possession</dt>
          <dd><b>Description:</b> Normally, in English writing, you indicate possession for a
            singular noun with an apostrophe plus the letter <i>"s"</i>. It can be a bit
            complicated when dealing with nouns that end in an <i>"s"</i> (plural or singular)
            and it can sometimes lead to confusion. However, in technical writing, it is better
            to avoid using possession to avoid any possibility of confusion. In most instances,
            there is an alternate way of writing sentences that might include words that show
            possession. While these alternate ways might sometimes seem overly formal for
            general writing or spoken communication, in technical writing, not only are they
            acceptable, but they are actually preferred because the more formal ways of writing
            the sentences are usually considered to be more professional and more grammatically
            correct. </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Avoid using possessives in the User Guide, if at all
              possible. If you find yourself using an apostrophe to show possession, rewrite the
              sentence. There might be some rare cases where you cannot find a better ways of
              writing the sentence and in those cases, use an apostrophe plus <i>"s"</i> at the
              end of singular nouns and just an apostrophe at the end of words that end in
              <i>"s"</i> (plural or singular).</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Plural Acronyms</dt>
          <dd><b>Description:</b> These rules define how to list plural acronyms. This is a
            difficult one to define because there are a lot of different opinions about it among
            experts and there does not seem to be a consensus for how they should be written.
            The problem is that there are a variety of ways that acronyms are read and
            deciphered and there is a lot of different opinions about which method looks the
            best and which methods cause the most ambiguity. The rules that were chosen are
            meant to make it as simple as possible while avoiding as much ambiguity as
            possible.</dd>
          <dd>
            <p><u><b>Rules:</b></u> Follow these style rules for the User Guide:</p>
            <p>
              <ul id="ul_a2k_wf3_kw">
                <li>DO NOT use <i>'s</i> at the end of acronyms since apostrophes are meant to
                  denote possession. Since we try to avoid using possession, and hence
                  apostrophes, in our documentation, we certainly do not want to cause confusion
                  by using them to signify a plural acronym.</li>
                <li>To prevent any type of confusion, if at all possible, try to avoid using
                  plural acronyms entirely. Try to find a way to write the sentence in singular
                  form or expand the acronym to its full name.</li>
                <li>If you do need to use a plural acronym, capitalize all letters of the actual
                  acronym and then use a lower case <i>s</i> at the end. If it seems to look
                  odd, use italics for the <i>s</i>. This also applies to acronyms that end in
                  an <i>S</i> (for example, CMS<i>s</i>).</li>
              </ul>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Punctuation in Lists or Steps</dt>
          <dd><b>Description:</b> These rules define how to use punctuation at the end of lists
            or steps.</dd>
          <dd>
            <p><u><b>Rules:</b></u> Follow these style rules for the User Guide:</p>
            <p>
              <ul id="ul_b2k_wf3_kw">
                <li>DO NOT use semi-colons at the end of list items or steps.</li>
                <li>Be consistent with the ending punctuation for all items (bullets) within a
                  list or step.</li>
                <li>Use a period at the end of the list items or steps, or a colon if
                  introducing another list inside the list item or step.</li>
                <li>If each bullet only contains one word (or a series of proper nouns),
                  punctuation is not necessary and usually looks better without. </li>
              </ul>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Spelling: American vs. British English</dt>
          <dd><b>Description:</b> There are some words that are spelled differently in these two
            forms of English (for example, <i>"color"</i> in American English vs.
            <i>"colour"</i> in British English). It is certainly grammatically acceptable to
            use either convention as long as you are consistent. This rule is meant to define
            which convention we should use for such words in our documentation.</dd>
          <dd>
            <p><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Since we have more customers in North America than in Great
              Britain, we will always use American English spelling for our documentation.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Structured Markup</dt>
          <dd><b>Description:</b> It is important to use markup liberally and consistently to
            make the documentation more visually appealing and readable. These rules are meant
            to be general guideline for using tags consistently throughout the
            documentation.</dd>
          <dd>
            <p><u><b>Rules:</b></u> The following list is just some of the most common tags that
              are used in the User Guide, and a description of the type of content that should
              be placed in the tags.</p>
            <p>
              <ul id="ul_c2k_wf3_kw">
                <li><b>API Names (<codeph>apiname</codeph>)</b> - Use this tag for specific
                  names of API extensions, methods, and classes.</li>
                <li><b>Bold (<codeph>b</codeph>)</b> - Use this tag to provide an emphasis on
                  certain text.</li>
                <li><b>Code Phrases (<codeph>codeph</codeph>)</b> - Use this tag for the
                  specific names of elements, attributes, and other snippets of code.</li>
                <li><b>File Paths (<codeph>filepath</codeph>)</b> - Use this tag for listing the
                  name of a specific file or file path.</li>
                <li><b>Italic (<codeph>i</codeph>)</b> - Use this tag for content that should
                  stand out from normal text.</li>
                <li><b>Keyboard Shortcuts (<codeph>shortcut</codeph>)</b> - Use this tag to
                  identify keyboard shortcuts.</li>
                <li><b>Notes (<codeph>note</codeph>)</b> - Use this tag for drawing attention to
                  additional information beyond the main text. Use the <codeph>type</codeph>
                  attribute to differentiate multiple contiguous notes or to define their
                  importance.</li>
                <li><b>Oxygen (<codeph>product</codeph>)</b> - Use the <codeph>product</codeph>
                  key whenever referring to oXygen.</li>
                <li><b>Terms (<codeph>term</codeph>)</b> - Use this tag for glossary terms and
                  other words or phrases that the reader might want an additional explanation or
                  definition.</li>
                <li><b>UI Controls (<codeph>uicontrol</codeph>)</b> - Use this tag for specific
                  names of user interface items, such as names of buttons, actions, dialog
                  boxes, views, menus, and modes (<uicontrol>Text</uicontrol>,
                  <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Grid</uicontrol>, or
                  <uicontrol>Design</uicontrol>). Alternatively, <codeph>wintitle</codeph> can
                  be used for names of such things as dialog boxes, views, modes, or windows
                  since <codeph>uicontrol</codeph> and <codeph>wintitle</codeph> tags are
                  rendered the same in all the outputs.</li>
                <li><b>WebApp (<codeph>webappProduct</codeph>)</b> - Use the
                  <codeph>webappProduct</codeph> code template whenever referring to WebApp
                  (the product or component).<note type="tip">It is useful to transform
                    individual topics into XHTML to see how the use of tags will look in the
                    output.</note></li>
              </ul>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Writing Approach for Creating Topics</dt>
          <dd><b>Description:</b> These rules are meant to provide basic guidelines for the type
            of approach that should be used for creating topics in the User Guide.</dd>
          <dd>
            <p><u><b>Rules:</b></u> Follow these rules for creating topics in the User Guide:<ul
              id="ul_d2k_wf3_kw">
              <li>Each topic should be based on a single overall idea.</li>
              <li>Each topic should be complete in and of itself, while linking to other
                related and relevant information.</li>
              <li>Each topic should be able to stand on its own without requiring the user to
                read other topics prior to the current one.</li>
              <li>Regardless of how the topics are organized the map, users should be able to
                read them in any order and skip around to other topics without a required
                sequence. However, topics should also be arranged in a logical order in the
                map or table of contents so that users can navigate in a logical sequence, if
                they so desire.</li>
              <li>Each topic should be designed so that it makes sense if readers find it with
                the first result from a search.<note type="tip">Consider the following
                  example. This was originally the first sentence in a topic about custom XML
                  refactoring operations: <i>If none of the predefined operations will help
                    you accomplish a particular refactoring task, you can create a custom
                    operation that is specific to your needs.</i> If this was the first topic
                  they came across in a specific search, they may question what "predefined
                  operations" the topic is referring to, especially since there was no link to
                  the predefined operations. Accordingly, it is better to begin the topic with
                  this sentence: <i>While <ph keyref="product"/> includes a variety of
                    predefined XML refactoring operations to help you accomplish particular
                    tasks, you can also create custom operations according to your specific
                    needs.</i></note></li>
            </ul></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
