<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="punctuationRules">
  <title>Punctuation Rules</title>
  <body>
    <p>Some punctuation rules are really just style choices (see the <xref
        href="punctuationStyleRules.dita"/> topic), although there are some concrete grammar rules
      in regards to punctuation. This section includes some of those concrete rules: <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Commas</dt>
          <dd>There are entire courses that provide all sorts of information about the proper usage
            of commas. For the purposes of our documentation, a few of the most common rules are
            described in this section.<p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Comma After an Introductory Infinitive Phrase</dt>
                  <dd><b>Description:</b> An <term>infinitive</term> is a verb form that typically
                    begins with the word <i>"to"</i>. An <term>infinitive phrase</term> includes the
                    infinitive, plus any modifiers and complements.</dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Always use a comma after an introductory <term>infinitive
                        phrase</term>, unless the infinitive phrase is the subject of the sentence.
                      It would be extremely rare for an introductory infinitive phrase to be the
                      subject in our documentation, so you can ignore the second part of the rule.
                      Also, when an infinitive phrase concludes a clause (rather than introducing
                      it), no punctuation is necessary.</p>
                  </dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><b><i>Example of an introductory infinitive phrase:</i></b>
                      <i>To add index terms to a map<b>,</b> open the map in the editor and add the
                        elements.</i></p>
                  </dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><b><i>Example of an infinitive phrase that concludes a clause:</i></b>
                      <i>This section explains how to create and work with projects.</i></p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Commas (or Parentheses) Before and After Parenthetical Expressions</dt>
                  <dd><b>Description:</b> A <term>parenthetical expression</term> is a phrase or
                    clause that is inserted within another phrase or clause.</dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Use commas or parentheses (brackets) to separate
                        <term>parenthetical expressions</term>.</p>
                  </dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><b><i>Example with commas:</i></b>
                      <i>This is useful if, for instance, you want to upgrade your existing
                        license.</i></p>
                  </dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><b><i>Example with parentheses:</i></b>
                      <i>This is useful if (for instance) you want to upgrade your existing
                        license.</i></p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Comma to Separate an Introductory Word or Phrase</dt>
                  <dd><b>Description:</b> An <term>introductory phrase</term>, or <term>introductory
                      word</term>, is simply one that begins a sentence, and includes<xref
                      href="specificGrammarRulesConjunctionsAdverbs.dita#specificGrammarRulesConjunctionsAdverbs/conjunctive-adverbs-dlentry"
                      >conjunctive adverbs</xref> (such as <i>"however"</i>, <i>"also"</i>,
                      <i>"therefore"</i>, etc.)</dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><u><b>Rule:</b></u> At the beginning of a sentence, introductory words or
                      phrases require a subsequent comma.</p>
                  </dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><b><i>Example:</i></b>
                      <i>In the beginning<b>,</b> I had no idea how to use a comma.</i></p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Comma to Separate Each Segment in a Series</dt>
                  <dd><b>Description:</b> In all forms of writing, commas usually separate more than
                    two segments in a series, although the comma before the last segment, called a
                      <term>Serial Comma</term>, is considered optional and therefore becomes a
                    style choice.</dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><u><b>Rule:</b></u> When there are more than two segments in a series, each
                      segment should be separated by a comma. For the purposes of the User Guide,
                      the <xref
                        href="punctuationStyleRules.dita#punctuationStyleRules/serial-comma-dlentry"
                        >style rule is that we always include the <term>serial comma</term></xref>
                      when there is more than two segments (to avoid any possible ambiguity).</p>
                  </dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><b><i>Example:</i></b>
                      <i>It provides support to help you edit<b>,</b> transform<b>,</b> and debug
                        XML-based documents. </i><note>Do not separate TWO segments with a comma
                        unless they are <xref
                          href="#punctuationRules/comma-independent-clause-dlentry"
                            ><term>independent clauses</term></xref>. No comma is needed when a
                        conjunction joins two phrases that modify the same verb.</note></p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="comma-independent-clause-dlentry">
                  <dt>Comma to Separate Independent Clauses</dt>
                  <dd><b>Description:</b> An <term>independent clause</term> is a sentence that can
                    stand on its own.</dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><u><b>Rule:</b></u> You should use commas to separate <term>independent
                        clauses</term> that are joined by <xref
                        href="specificGrammarRulesConjunctionsAdverbs.dita#specificGrammarRulesConjunctionsAdverbs/coordinating-conjunctions-li"
                        >coordinating conjunctions</xref> . Here is how to test it: Would the second
                      part of the sentence (following the coordinating conjunction) make a full
                      sentence on its own? If so, add a comma. If not, leave it out.</p>
                  </dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><b><i>Example:</i></b>
                      <i>This tool is very powerful<b>,</b> and it includes a lot of user-friendly
                        features.</i></p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Comma to Separate Non-restrictive Clauses</dt>
                  <dd><b>Description:</b> Similar to parenthetical expressions, a
                      <term>non-restrictive clause</term> adds extra information that is not
                    essential to the basic meaning of the sentence.</dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Use commas to separate <term>non-restrictive
                        clauses</term>. When a non-restrictive clause appears in the middle of a
                      sentence, place commas before and after it. When a non-restrictive clause
                      appears at the end of a sentence, place a comma before it.</p>
                  </dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><b><i>Example:</i></b>
                      <i>You can use the visual WebHelp Skin Builder tool<b>,</b> which does not
                        require knowledge of CSS language<b>,</b> to change the overall appearance
                        of the output.</i></p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
