<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="specificGrammarRulesWordsPhrases">
  <title>Specific Grammar Rules in Regards to Specific Words or Phrases</title>
  <body>
    <p>The following grammar rules are meant to distinguish when and how to use specific words or
      which form of a word to use in particular situations: <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b><i>"a"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"an"</i></b></dt>
          <dd><b>Description:</b> This is one of the most common errors made in English writing.
            There is a common misperception that the rule is that you use <i>"a"</i> before words
            that start with a consonant and <i>"an"</i> before words that start with a vowel.
            However, that is only partially correct. REMEMBER, it is how the subsequent word SOUNDS,
            not how it is written. The letters 'H' and 'U' usually cause the most confusion because
            some words that start with those letters have a consonant sound and some have a vowel
            sound.</dd>
          <dd>
            <p><u><b>Rule to follow:</b></u> The rule is that you use <i>"a"</i> before words that
              start with a consonant SOUND and <i>"an"</i> before words that start with a vowel
              SOUND.</p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b><i>Examples for "a":</i></b>
              <i>"<u>Unique</u>" or "<u>URL</u>" - You would use "a'" before both words because they
                both begin with a 'you' SOUND.</i>
              <i>"<u>Historic</u>" or "<u>High</u>" - You would use "a'" before them because they
                begin with a consonant 'h' SOUND.</i>
            </p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b><i>Examples for "an":</i></b>
              <i>"<u>Unusual</u>" or "<u>Umbrella</u>" - You would use "an'" before both words
                because they both begin with an 'uh' SOUND.</i>
              <i>"<u>Hour</u>" or "<u>HTTP</u>" - You would use "an'" before them because they begin
                with an 'a-wer' and 'aye' SOUND, respectively.</i></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b><i>"Such as"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"Like"</i></b></dt>
          <dd><b>Description:</b> This is another one of the most common problems found in English
            writing. Many grammarians consider both to be acceptable, especially when speaking, but
            when using them in technical writing, you should not use them interchangeably because
            they have different implications. <i>"Like"</i> suggests comparison (something is
            similar to something else), while <i>"such as"</i> implies inclusion (something is
            precisely included as an example of something).</dd>
          <dd>
            <p><u><b>Rules to follow:</b></u> In most cases, avoid using <i>"like"</i> when you can
              use <i>"such as"</i> instead, and only use <i>"like"</i> when making some sort of
              comparison to something similar.</p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b><i>Example of "such as":</i></b>
              <i>You can specify a set of transformation scenarios to convert XML documents to
                various formats, <b>such as</b> HTML and PDF.</i><note>When <i>"such as"</i> is part
                of a <term>non-restrictive clause</term>, as it is in the above example, it needs to
                be preceded with a comma (or the whole clause placed in parentheses).</note></p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b><i>Example of "like":</i></b>
              <i>A DITA book map is intended for creating output that is <b>like</b> a book.</i></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b><i>"That"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"Which"</i></b></dt>
          <dd><b>Description:</b> There are some experts who believe this is more of a style choice
            than a grammar rule, but those people are completely ignoring the fact that when these
            two words are used interchangeably they are usually two completely different types of
            grammatical words (<i>"that"</i> being an adjective in these instances, and
              <i>"which"</i> being a pronoun/determiner). Some people might also argue that the
            rules are more complex and flexible than the rules we will use, but it is important to
            keep the rules simple and for the purposes of our User Guide, we use these two words in
            ways that are only grammatically correct and clear if we follow the rules listed below.
            Also, in most cases, it looks and sounds much better to use this common grammar
              rule.<note>It becomes even more complex and confusing when considering combination of
              words such as <i>"for which"</i> or <i>"in which"</i>. They are sometimes used instead
              of <i>"that"</i> to prevent ending a sentence with a preposition. However, that
              becomes a completely different subject and this rule should not be used for those
              instances. The word <i>"which"</i> is also used in multiple ways, some of which are
              not interchangeable with <i>"that"</i> (for example, <i>"determine which one to
                use"</i>). To make it as simple as possible, just use this rule to determine when to
              use the single words <i>"that"</i> or <i>"which"</i> when they could be used
              interchangeably. </note></dd>
          <dd>
            <p><u><b>Rules to follow:</b></u> To make a complex topic as simple as possible, use
                <i>"that"</i> before a <term>restrictive clause</term> and <i>"which"</i> before a
                <term>non-restrictive clause</term>.<ul id="ul_gpy_kf3_kw">
                <li>A <term>restrictive clause</term> is part of a sentence that you can not get rid
                  of because it specifically restricts some other part of the sentence and without
                  it the meaning of the sentence would change (or the sentence would be
                  incomplete).</li>
                <li>A <term>non-restrictive clause</term> is something that can be left off without
                  changing the meaning of the sentence (or making it incomplete) and it is simply
                  additional information.<note type="important">Non-restrictive clauses are almost
                    always surrounded by, or preceded by, commas. Therefore, whenever you use
                      <i>"which"</i> before a non-restrictive clause, it should be preceded with a
                    comma.</note></li>
              </ul></p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b><i>Example of an improper use of "that":</i></b>
              <i>This section lists and describes all the contextual menu actions <b>that</b> are
                also available in various submenus.</i> [You should not use <i>"that"</i> in this
              instance because the reader might understand that the section only lists the actions
              that are in both locations instead of understanding that the section includes ALL the
              contextual menu actions (and that they are ALSO available in submenus). The clause
              that follows <i>"that"</i> in this case is a non-restrictive clause that simply
              provides additional information. Therefore, you should use <i>", which"</i> in this
              type of instance.</p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b><i>Example of a proper use of "that":</i></b>
              <i>This section explains the actions <b>that</b> are available for a Berkeley DB XML
                connection.</i> [The clause that follows <i>"that"</i> cannot be omitted without
              causing an incomplete sentence and it does not simply provide additional information
              (it is essential to the meaning of the sentence). Therefore, it is a restrictive
              clause and you must use <i>"that"</i> instead of <i>"which"</i>].</p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b><i>Example of an improper use of "which":</i></b>
              <i>The stylesheet contains templates <b>which</b> output the static header and footers
                for various parts of the PDF.</i> [You cannot use <i>"which"</i> in this case
              because the information that follows it is essential to the meaning of the sentence
              and is not simply providing additional information. In this case, you would need to
              use <i>"that"</i> instead.]</p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b><i>Example of a proper use of "which":</i></b>
              <i>While you are working on your own branch, other team members can continue to make
                important changes in the parent branch<b>, which</b> could be the trunk itself or
                any other branch.</i> [The clause that follows <i>"which"</i> could be omitted
              without changing the meaning of the sentence since it simply provides additional
              information and could even be an independent idea of its own (for example, by changing
                <i>"which"</i> to <i>"It"</i> and making it a new sentence.]</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b><i>"That"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"Who"</i></b></dt>
          <dd><b>Description:</b> This can be tricky and complicated, but to make it as simple as
            possible, consider who or what is being described. Some experts say that it is
            acceptable to use either word when describing a person, but it seems to dehumanize the
            person when using <i>"that"</i> to describe a person.</dd>
          <dd>
            <p><u><b>Rule to follow:</b></u> Use <i>"that"</i> when describing an object, or
                <i>"who"</i> when describing a person.</p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b><i>Example of "that"</i></b>: <i>Permanent reassignment of a Named User to a
                position <b>that</b> does not involve the use of the Software.</i></p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b><i>Example of "who"</i></b>: <i>Permanent reassignment of a Named User <b>who</b>
                owns the rights to the software.</i></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b><i>"To either"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"Either to"</i></b></dt>
          <dd><b>Description:</b> This is one of those rules that differ depending on whether you
            are speaking or writing. Both phrases mean exactly the same thing and when speaking,
            both phrases are acceptable. However, when writing, <i>"to either"</i> is simply MORE
            grammatically correct.</dd>
          <dd>
            <p><u><b>Rules to follow:</b></u> As a general rule, it is better to use <i>"to
                either"</i> since the word "either" implies a choice of two options and by placing
              the <i>"to"</i> in the front, you are removing it from the grammatical construction
                <i>'either A or B'</i>. If you do use <i>"either to"</i>, you would need to include
              a second <i>"to"</i> to make the construction grammatically correct (<i>'either
                  <u>to</u> A or <u>to</u> B'</i>).</p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b><i>Example of "either to":</i></b>
              <i>You can use this API <b>either to</b> print the document or <b>to</b> show the
                Print Preview dialog box.</i> [To make this sentence grammatically correct, notice
              that you have to use a second <i>"to"</i> in front of the second clause.]</p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b><i>Example of "to either":</i></b>
              <i>You can use this API <b>to either</b> print the document or show the Print Preview
                dialog box..</i> [Notice that by using <i>"to either"</i> you do not need a second
                <i>"to"</i> before the second clause to make the sentence grammatically
              correct.]</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b><i>"Affect"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"Effect"</i></b></dt>
          <dd><b>Description:</b> These two words are often confused when referring to something
            changing another thing. The word <i>"effect"</i> is a noun, while <i>"affect"</i> is a
            verb.</dd>
          <dd>
            <p><u><b>Rules to follow:</b></u> Basically, use <i>"Effect"</i> when referring to the
              change itself (noun), and <i>"Affect"</i> when referring to the act of changing
              (verb).</p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b><i>Example of "effect":</i></b>
              <i>Documents that contain long lines can have a negative <b>effect</b> on
                performance.</i></p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b><i>Example of "affect":</i></b>
              <i>Documents that contain long lines can <b>affect</b> performance.</i></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b><i>"Between"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"Among"</i></b></dt>
          <dd><b>Description:</b> This rule can be confusing, but you simply need to think about
            whether or not the referenced things are clearly separated.</dd>
          <dd>
            <p><u><b>Rules to follow:</b></u> Use <i>"between"</i> when referring to multiple things
              that are clearly separated, and <i>"among"</i> for things that you can cannot clearly
              separate because they are part of a group of objects.</p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b><i>Example of "between":</i></b>
              <i>The DITA Maps Manager organizes the relationships <b>between</b> maps and
                topics.</i></p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b><i>Example of "among":</i></b>
              <i>DITA maps organize the relationships <b>among</b> various topics.</i></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b><i>"Different"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"Various"</i></b> or <b><i>"Multiple"</i></b></dt>
          <dd><b>Description:</b> Misusing the word <i>"different"</i> is one of the most common
            problems in formal and technical writing. When speaking, or perhaps in colloquial
            writing, the two words are often used synonymously, but in formal or technical writing
            it is important to differentiate between the two. <i>"Different"</i> implies a
            comparison (<i>different</i> from what?), whereas <i>"various"</i> or <i>"multiple"</i>
            implies multiplicity or diversity.</dd>
          <dd>
            <p><u><b>Rules to follow:</b></u> Do not use <i>"different"</i> when you mean
                <i>"various"</i> or <i>"multiple"</i> (<i>"other"</i> and <i>"another"</i> are also
              examples of words that might be better). Only use <i>"different"</i> to refer to
              comparison or distinction between things. Also, if you are to use the word
                <i>"different"</i>, stop and ask yourself "it is different from what?" If you cannot
              answer that question or it does not make sense, avoid using <i>"different"</i>.</p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b><i>Example of "different":</i></b>
              <i>The name of the directory might be something <b>different</b> on your
              system.</i></p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b><i>Example of "various":</i></b>
              <i>The Quick Fix support helps you resolve <b>various</b> errors that appear in
                documents.</i></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b><i>"However"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"But"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"Although"</i></b></dt>
          <dd><b>Description:</b> These three words are often misunderstood in English writing and
            many people incorrectly think they are completely synonymous. While their meanings are
            very similar, <i>"however"</i> and <i>"but"</i> introduces a contrast or contradiction
            to a previous statement, while <i>"although"</i> does not necessarily imply contrast and
            can be used if both statements could be true. Also, <i>"but"</i> and <i>"although"</i>
            are conjunctions, while <i>"however"</i> is an adverb and needs to be used differently
            in the sentence structure.</dd>
          <dd>
            <p><u><b>Rules to follow:</b></u> To make it as simple as possible, follow these rules
              for each word:<ul id="ul_hpy_kf3_kw">
                <li><b><i>"However"</i></b> - When using <i>"however"</i>, in most cases it should
                  begin a new sentence and be followed by a comma. Use it when you want to stress
                  contrast or contradiction AND you want to start a new sentence (therefore
                  contrasting the two sentences).</li>
                <li><b><i>"But"</i></b> - When using <i>"but"</i>, do not ever use it to start a new
                  sentence and it needs to be preceded by a comma. Use it when you want to stress
                  contrast or contradiction AND you do not want to start a new sentence (therefore
                  contrasting the two parts of the same sentence).</li>
                <li><b><i>"Although"</i></b> - This word may be used to start a sentence or in the
                  middle of a sentence. When using it to start a new sentence it would not be
                  followed by a comma. When using it in the middle of a sentence it needs to be
                  preceded by a comma. Use it when you want to stress that both parts of the
                  statement may be true (make sure both parts of the statement are included in the
                  sentence).</li>
              </ul></p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b><i>Example of "however":</i></b>
              <i>He knows a lot about general programming. <b>However,</b> he has some confusion
                about Java programming.</i></p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b><i>Example of "but":</i></b>
              <i>She said the book is blue, <b>but</b> I think it is green.</i></p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b><i>Examples of "although":</i></b>
              <i>We usually speak in Romanian, <b>although</b> sometimes we use English.</i> OR
                  <i><b>Although</b> we usually speak in Romanian, sometimes we use English.</i></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b><i>"Less"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"Fewer"</i></b></dt>
          <dd><b>Description:</b> Despite popular belief, there is a clear difference between when
            these two words should be used in most cases.</dd>
          <dd>
            <p><u><b>Rules to follow:</b></u> Use <i>"less"</i> for things that are not
              quantifiable, and <i>"fewer"</i> for things that you can clearly count.</p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b><i>Example of "less":</i></b>
              <i>It uses less memory.</i></p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b><i>Example of "fewer":</i></b>
              <i>It uses fewer than 300 MB.</i></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b><i>"Whether"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"Whether or not"</i></b></dt>
          <dd><b>Description:</b> There are so many conditions to this rule that it seems that many
            modern writers have decided that it is too complicated and not worth their time to
            consider so they simply ignore all of them and never include <i>"or not"</i> even when
            doing so leads to ambiguity. They justify this by suggesting that the <i>"or not"</i> is
            implied when appropriate and is therefore optional. However, this is clearly not always
            the case. Your meaning can easily become unclear or ideas might seem incomplete if you
            omit <i>"or not"</i> in many cases. In the very least, it might irritate your reader if
            they have to pause and re-read the sentence, and its surrounding sentences, to decipher
            the intended meaning.<p>Consider the following example: <i>Oxygen prompts you to choose
                  <b>whether</b> you want to paste the content as XML.</i> The intended meaning
              could have been any of the following:<ul id="ul_ipy_kf3_kw">
                <li>Oxygen prompts you to choose whether you want to paste the content as XML or
                  paste it as something else (such as text). [In this case, the sentence and idea is
                  incomplete and you need to specify what that 'something else' is.]</li>
                <li>Oxygen prompts you to choose whether you want to paste the content as XML, or
                  not at all. [In this case, it is imperative to use <i>whether or not</i> to avoid
                  breaking the flow and possible ambiguity.]</li>
                <li>Oxygen prompts you to choose something (that was previously mentioned),
                  regardless of whether or not you want to paste the content. [In this case, you
                  would need a commas after choose and use <i>whether or not</i> or <i>regardless of
                    whether or not</i>.]</li>
              </ul></p></dd>
          <dd>
            <p><u><b>Rules to follow:</b></u> Consider the following rules when using the word
                <i>"whether"</i>:</p>
            <ul id="ul_jpy_kf3_kw">
              <li>If you are differentiating between whether to do something, or to not do something
                entirely, always use <i>"whether or not"</i>.</li>
              <li>If you are differentiating between two different things, use <i>"whether"</i> and
                specify both things.</li>
              <li>In situations where <i>"or not"</i> might be considered optional, it is far better
                to include it than to omit it. Remember to make sure the meaning of the sentence is
                clear and that it will not require the reader to stop and re-read it simply because
                you left out a few extra words that would make it more clear.</li>
              <li>In some cases, it might be better to simply use some sort of <i>"if"</i> statement
                instead.</li>
              <li>Whenever the use of the word <i>"whether"</i> is synonymous to <i>regardless of
                  whether or not</i>, you must use <i>"whether or not"</i> or <i>"regardless of
                  whether or not"</i>. </li>
            </ul>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b><i>Example of "whether":</i></b>
              <i>Oxygen prompts you to choose <b>whether</b> you want to paste the content as XML or
                plain text.</i></p>
          </dd>
          <dd>
            <p><b><i>Example of "whether or not":</i></b>
              <i>Oxygen prompts you to choose <b>whether or not</b> you want to paste the
                content.</i></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
