<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="useSpecificWords">
  <title>Use of Specific Words (Style Rules)</title>
  <body>
    <p>The following <i>Style Rules</i> provide guidelines for the use of particular words:</p>
    <p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b><i>"Authors"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"Writers"</i></b></dt>
          <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Simply as a matter of company preference, use <i>"content
              authors"</i> instead of <i>"technical writers"</i>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b><i>"Combo Box"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"Combobox"</i></b>
          </dt>
          <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Use <i>"combo box"</i> instead of <i>"combobox"</i>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b><i>"Cursor"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"Caret"</i></b></dt>
          <dd><u><b>Rules:</b></u> Use <i>"cursor"</i> instead of <i>"caret"</i>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b><i>"Dialog Box"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"Dialog"</i></b></dt>
          <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Use <i>"dialog box"</i> instead of <i>"dialog"</i>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b><i>"Drop-Down Menu"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"Combo Box</i></b></dt>
          <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Use <i>"drop-down menu"</i> or <i>"drop-down list"</i> when
            referring to composite buttons that include submenus.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b><i>"Enabled/Disabled"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"Selected/Deselected</i></b></dt>
          <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Use a form of <i>"enable"</i> when referring to a feature or
            something general, but use a form of <i>"select"</i> when referring to a specific UI
            option (for example, where you select a checkbox).</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b><i>"etc."</i></b></dt>
          <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Typically, only use <i>"etc."</i> inside parentheses. For example:
              <i>"(XML parser, XSLT transformer, XQuery engine, etc.)"</i></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b><i>"Following"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"Next"</i></b></dt>
          <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> In present tense instances where you are introducing something
            that follows (such as <i>"In the subsequent chapters..."</i>), use <i>"following"</i> or
              <i>"subsequent"</i> instead of <i>"next"</i> (for example, <i>"In the following
              image..."</i> rather than <i>"In the next image..."</i>).</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b><i>"For Example"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"e.g."</i></b> vs. <b><i>"i.e."</i></b></dt>
          <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Since there is a lot of ambiguity in regards to when and how to
            use these abbreviations <i>"e.g."</i> and <i>"i.e."</i>, it is safer to NEVER use either
            of them. Instead, be specific and use the full versions (<i>"For example"</i> or <i>"In
              other words"</i>).</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b><i>"Includes"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"Comes with"</i></b></dt>
          <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> In most cases, use <i>"includes"</i> instead of <i>"comes
              with"</i> (for example, <i>"oXygen includes a user-friendly interface..."</i>).</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b><i>"Multiple"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"More than one"</i></b></dt>
          <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Use <i>"multiple"</i> instead of <i>"more than one"</i>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b><i>"Schemas"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"Schemata"</i></b> (plural)</dt>
          <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Use <i>"Schemas"</i> instead of <i>"Schemata"</i> to refer to the
            plural form of the word.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b><i>"They"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"He/She"</i></b></dt>
          <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Use <i>"they"</i> rather than <i>"he/she"</i>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b><i>"You"</i></b> vs. <b><i>"One"</i></b></dt>
          <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Use <i>"you"</i> rather than an impersonal <i>"one"</i>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
