<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="websiteRules">
  <title>Style Rules for the Website</title>
  <body>
    <p>This section includes some basic style rules specifically for documenting certain parts of
      the website.</p>
    <p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>What's New Section</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>The following <i>Style Rules</i> pertain to adding features in the <i>What's New</i>
            sections of the website.<p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Content of Features</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Whenever possible, the content of each feature should
                    focus on its actual benefit to the end user.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Links to the User Guide</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Add links to the User Guide for features in which users
                    might want more information.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Structured Markup</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules:</b></u> The following list is some of the most common tags that
                    are used in the website, and a description of the type of content that should be
                    placed in the tags.<ul id="ul_hnw_1g3_kw">
                      <li><b>Bold (<codeph>strong</codeph>)</b> - Use the <codeph>strong</codeph>
                        tag when referring to <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol>,
                          <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Grid</uicontrol>, or
                          <uicontrol>Design</uicontrol> modes.</li>
                      <li><b>Emphasis (<codeph>emf</codeph>)</b> - Use the <codeph>emf</codeph> tag
                        for names of UI controls.</li>
                      <li><b>Italics (<codeph>italic</codeph>)</b> - Use the <codeph>italic</codeph>
                        tag for content that would normally be wrapped in various code-related DITA
                        elements (such as <codeph>codeph</codeph>, <codeph>apiname</codeph>,
                          <codeph>filepath</codeph>, etc.)</li>
                      <li><b>oXygen (<codeph>product</codeph>)</b> - Use the
                          <codeph>product</codeph> key whenever referring to oXygen.</li>
                    </ul></dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Other Style Rules for the Website</dt>
          <dd>The following are other <i>Style Rules</i> that pertain the website.<p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Time Zones</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> When referring to time zones in North America, use the 2
                    letter abbreviation (<i>ET</i> for Eastern Time). DO NOT use the 3 letter
                    abbreviation (for example, <i>EDT</i> or <i>EST</i>) to avoid causing confusion
                    or listing an inaccurate time.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Syncro Soft</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rule:</b></u> Use <i>"Syncro Soft"</i> unless <i>"Syncro"</i> is clearly
                    defined as <i>"Syncro Soft"</i> in the document.</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
