<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="writingTips">
  <title>Writing Tips and Suggestions</title>
  <body>
    <p>The writing rules and tips listed in this section are more suggestions than concrete rules,
      but they are important to make documentation clear, concise, effective, absorbing, and
      comprehensible. These suggestions and guidelines are meant to help anyone improve their
      writing skills. </p>
    <p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Good Documentation Requires Relentless Editing</dt>
          <dd>If you <i>really</i> want to produce great documentation, it needs to be proofread and
            edited. No matter how talented a writer happens to be, it is nearly impossible to avoid
            mistakes on the first attempt.<p><b>Tips for proofreading and editing:</b><ul
                id="ul_np2_hg3_kw">
                <li>It is often a good idea to write all of your text, then take a break from it,
                  and return to proofread and edit it later with fresh eyes and ideas.</li>
                <li>When proofreading your text, shorten, delete, and rewrite anything that does not
                  add to its meaning.</li>
                <li>It is also a good idea to have someone else review your documentation because
                  when you read something you wrote yourself, you know what you <i>meant</i> to
                  write, so it is really easy to just skip over typos or missing words.</li>
                <li>If you are editing your own work, changing the indent structure or font size can
                  help you recognize mistakes that were previously unnoticed.</li>
              </ul></p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Basic Writing Rules</dt>
          <dd>The following rules are suggestions in regards to general writing standards:<p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Complete Sentences</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> Except in extraordinary circumstances,
                    sentences should always be complete. Proofread your work carefully to spot
                    sentence fragments that are written as if they are complete sentences.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Redundancy</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> It is usually a good practice to avoid
                    redundancy, or extra unnecessary words, in your writing. Redundancy makes your
                    writing less effective because it makes the reader waste time and attention
                    re-reading information that was already provided. The point of your writing
                    should be to provide all the necessary information in the most precise and
                    effective manner possible. There are times when it is good to use redundancy for
                    emphasis, but in all other situations it is best to avoid it.</dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><b><i>Examples of redundant phrases to avoid in technical writing:</i></b><ul
                        id="ul_op2_hg3_kw">
                        <li><i>"add an additional"</i> - The word <i>"additional"</i> is
                          redundant.</li>
                        <li><i>"during the course of"</i> - The words <i>"course of"</i> are
                          repetitive.</li>
                        <li><i>"end result"</i> - The word <i>"end"</i> is not needed.</li>
                        <li><i>"final outcome"</i> - The word <i>"final"</i> is repetitive.</li>
                        <li><i>"in order to"</i> - The words <i>"in order"</i> are not needed.</li>
                        <li><i>"merge together"</i> - The word <i>"together"</i> is redundant.</li>
                        <li><i>"since the time you last"</i> - You can omit <i>"the time"</i> and
                          just use <i>"since you last</i>. This also applies without the word
                            <i>"last"</i>. For example, <i>"since the time you opened the file"</i>
                          should be <i>"since you last opened the file"</i>.</li>
                        <li><i>"still remains"</i> - The word <i>"still"</i> is unnecessary.</li>
                        <li><i>"unintentional mistake"</i> - All mistakes are
                          <i>"unintentional"</i>, so that word is redundant.</li>
                        <li><i>"variety of different"</i> - If there is a variety of something, it
                          is implied that they are different, thus <i>"different"</i> is
                          redundant.</li>
                        <li>Avoid using unnecessary adverbs that are NOT specifically used for some
                          sort of emphasis (for example, <i>"very"</i>, <i>"little"</i>,
                            <i>"pretty"</i>, <i>"extremely"</i>).</li>
                      </ul></p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Run-on Sentences</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> A <term>run-on</term> sentence is one that
                    joins clauses that could each stand on its own as a sentence without any
                    punctuation or words to link them. Fused sentences must be either divided into
                    separate sentences or joined by adding conjunctive words or punctuation. Always
                    consider the general flow and the length of the sentences to decide whether to
                    separate them or add conjunctions.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Structure of Paragraphs</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> The ideas in all the sentences in a
                    paragraph should be interconnected. If you introduce a completely new thought,
                    you need to start a new paragraph. The ideas should also flow in proper sequence
                    so that you do not confuse the reader. Also, do not make the paragraphs too long
                    because your readers might get disinterested and feel like they are inundated
                    with too much information at once.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Structure of Sentences</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> Try to avoid starting a sentence with one
                    kind of structure and then changing to another later in the sentence. Doing so
                    can confuse your readers.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Structure of Topics</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> Make sure the whole topic has a good flow.
                    Usually, you will want to introduce the concept, then provide the specific
                    content that will provide the reader with all the information they need, then
                    wrap it up with some sort of conclusion that summarizes everything or clearly
                    indicates the end of the topic. </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Transitions</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> Each paragraph should transition smoothly
                    from the preceding paragraph. Without good transitions, the reader will end up
                    backtracking repeatedly and will often become confused or frustrated.</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Basic Technical Writing Rules</dt>
          <dd>The following rules are suggestions in regards to technical writing standards:<p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Ambiguity</dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p>
                      <u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> One of the most important things in
                      technical writing is to make sure the information that you write is very
                      clear. Use the following rules to help avoid confusion:<ul id="ul_pp2_hg3_kw">
                        <li>Always proofread your writing carefully to identify possible
                          ambiguity.</li>
                        <li>It is also always a good idea to have someone else proofread your
                          writing because it may seem clear to you, but if it is ambiguous to them,
                          in any way, then it is probably also ambiguous to your normal
                          audience.</li>
                        <li>Be careful when using pronouns (<i>"this</i>, <i>"these"</i>,
                            <i>"it"</i>). Always ask yourself if there is any chance that the reader
                          will not know exactly what items the pronouns are referencing. See the
                            <xref
                            href="commonGrammarErrors.dita#commonGrammarRrrors/vague-pronouns-dlentry"
                              ><i>Vague Pronouns</i> section</xref> in the Grammar Rules for more
                          specific information.</li>
                      </ul></p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Audience</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> Always consider who your audience might be
                    for your specific topic. Once you identify who you are writing it for, ask
                    yourself what they need to know and make sure you include everything that
                    audience needs to know.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Avoid <i>Fancy</i> Words</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> The best writing is simple and concise,
                    with the relevant ideas delivered in a clear and direct manner. Avoid using
                      <i>fancy</i> words that might be perceived as pretentious or more elaborate
                    than necessary. Your audience will appreciate reading words that are simple and
                    to the point. They care about your content being clear and accurate, not how big
                    your vocabulary is.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Avoid Passive Voice</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> Particularly in technical writing, you
                    should avoid using a <term>passive voice</term> whenever possible.
                      <term>Passive</term> writing comes across as sounding weak and ambiguous,
                    while using in an active voice makes your writing seem more alive and clear.
                    Basically, passive voice happens when the object of a sentence is placed in the
                    beginning of a sentence instead of the end. In other words, the object becomes
                    the subject. For example, <i>"I mailed the letter"</i> becomes passive if it is
                    changed to <i>"The letter was mailed by me"</i>.<p>
                      <dl>
                        <dlentry>
                          <dt>How to recognize a <i>Passive Voice</i> sentence</dt>
                          <dd>The two most basic things to ask yourself are:<ul id="ul_qp2_hg3_kw">
                              <li>Is the object in the subject position?</li>
                              <li>Can I add <i>"by [so-and-so]"</i> to the end?</li>
                            </ul></dd>
                          <dd>Also, keep this in mind: All passive sentences include a form of the
                            verb <i>"to be"</i> (such as <i>"was"</i>, <i>"were"</i> or
                            <i>"is"</i>), BUT not all sentences that have those verbs are passive.
                            It is easy to recognize sentences that include a form of <i>"to be"</i>
                            but you need to ask yourself the two questions above to determine if it
                            is in the passive voice.</dd>
                        </dlentry>
                        <dlentry>
                          <dt><b><i>Examples from the UG:</i></b></dt>
                          <dd><b>Passive voice:</b>
                            <i>The New Document wizard allows you to select custom templates that
                                <b>were created in previous sessions by you or other users</b>.</i>
                            [INCORRECT]</dd>
                          <dd><b>Active voice:</b>
                            <i>The New Document wizard allows you to select custom templates that
                                <b>you or other users created in previous sessions</b>.</i>
                            [CORRECT]</dd>
                        </dlentry>
                      </dl>
                    </p></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Avoid Using Figures of Speech</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> Always avoid figures of speech, such as
                      <term>similes</term> and <term>metaphors</term>.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Consistency</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> By nature, technical documentation is
                    certainly not much fun to read and it might seem that meticulous consistency
                    would make it even more boring. That logic might true for general writing, but
                    most of the time the only reason why people read technical documentation is
                    because they are stuck and need to figure out how to do something specific.
                    Using meticulous consistency in technical writing will allow the user to find
                    information quickly and help them to understand it better. </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Contractions</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> Contractions are appropriate only for
                    conversational use and for informal writing, but never for technical writing.
                    Avoid using them in the User Guide.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Include Links to Other Documentation</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> Include links to other pertinent sections
                    of the documentation (or other resources) whenever possible. You want to make it
                    as convenient as possible for the users to navigate to other sections, topics,
                    or resources that might help them to find the information they need.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Make Important Content Noticeable</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> Use various structural elements to make
                    topics more visually appealing and readable. It is a good practice to break up
                    long blocks of text with some sort of contrast. Use titles, lists or notes to
                    create contrast and emphasize important informations, and always use concrete
                    language.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Markup</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> People read technical documentation
                    differently than they do other types of writing. They tend to skim through
                    documentation to quickly find the information they need. This means good
                    technical documentation needs to have a lot of structured markup to emphasize
                    content and point the reader directly to information they need for the specific
                    subject. Also, use a variety of structural elements to emphasize and break up
                    blocks of content.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Sections</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> Use sections to separate multiple subjects
                    in the same topic, to create breaks in long blocks of text, and to introduce
                    procedures. The basic idea of using sections is to allow users to quickly find
                    the specific part of the topic that contains the information they are looking
                    for, without needing to read other content that may not be relevant to their
                    specific need. Each section should contain a good title that describes the
                    content of that section. This will also help readers find specific information
                    more quickly. </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Short Sentences and Paragraphs</dt>
                  <dd>
                    <u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> You should try to keep sentences short
                    because they are easier to read and understand. Each sentence should have one
                    basic thought. More than that creates complexity and invites confusion.
                    Likewise, paragraphs should also as short as possible because our brains take in
                    information better when it is broken into small chunks. Also, all the sentences
                    in each paragraph should be interconnected to a single idea. </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Teach</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> Good technical documentation should be
                    focused on teaching or guiding the audience, rather than simply providing
                    arbitrary information. The purpose of technical documentation is to teach a new
                    user to become of expert and then support them once they are.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Use Structure for Procedural or Task-Related Information</dt>
                  <dd><u><b>Rules or Suggestions:</b></u> Do not bury task-related information
                    within dense paragraphs. This will make your readers very frustrated when they
                    are trying to learn how to do a specific task. Use structured components to make
                    your instructions more visible and appealing. Follow the subsequent guidelines
                    whenever documenting procedures.</dd>
                  <dd>
                    <p><b>Guidelines for documenting procedures:</b><ul id="ul_rp2_hg3_kw">
                        <li>It is helpful to use titles for procedures, especially when the
                          procedure is surrounded by a large amount of content. This helps the
                          reader to quickly find the procedure that they are looking for amongst
                          blocks of other content.</li>
                        <li>Only use <term>unordered lists</term> (<codeph>ul</codeph>) when steps
                          do not need to occur in sequence.</li>
                        <li>Always use <term>ordered lists</term> (<codeph>ol</codeph>) when the
                          steps must occur in a sequence and make sure the items are in proper
                          order.</li>
                        <li>Each step in a procedure should be an action in the sequence.</li>
                        <li>If possible, eliminate steps that lack action. Instead, put
                          informational content after the action within a step, or put it outside
                          the step (for example, in a <codeph>paragraph</codeph> or <codeph>step
                            result</codeph>).</li>
                        <li>Use sub-steps rather than putting too many tasks within one step.</li>
                        <li>Clearly identify optional steps. For example, put the word
                            <i>"optional"</i> in parentheses at the beginning of the step.</li>
                        <li>Identify conditional steps with words such as <i>"if"</i> and
                            <i>"then"</i>.</li>
                        <li>Use an additional list within a list for branching steps, such as
                          alternative methods.</li>
                        <li>Edit and rewrite ambiguous steps. Proofread the entire procedure, or
                          better yet, have someone else read the procedure, and if there is any
                          ambiguity in any of the steps, the procedure needs to be revised. </li>
                      </ul></p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
