<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="refactor-actions">
  <title>Refactor Actions reusable components</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm> </indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>
      <dl><dlentry id="refactoring-attributes-dlentry">
        <dt><uicontrol>Attributes</uicontrol> submenu</dt>
        <dd>Contains predefined XML refactoring operations that pertain to attributes. <ph
          keyref="product"/> considers the editing context to get the names and namespaces
          of the element or attribute for which the contextual menu was invoked, and uses
          this information to preconfigure some of the parameter values for the selected
          refactoring operation.</dd>
        <dd>
          <dl>
            <dlentry>
              <dt><uicontrol>Add/Change attribute</uicontrol></dt>
              <dd>Allows you to change the value of an attribute or insert a new one.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
              <dt><uicontrol>Delete attribute</uicontrol></dt>
              <dd>Allows you to remove one or more attributes.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
              <dt><uicontrol>Rename attribute</uicontrol></dt>
              <dd>Allows you to rename an attribute.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
              <dt><uicontrol>Replace in attribute value</uicontrol></dt>
              <dd>Allows you to search for a text fragment inside an attribute value and
                change the fragment to a new value.</dd>
            </dlentry>
          </dl>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="refactoring-elements-dlentry">
          <dt><uicontrol>Elements</uicontrol> submenu</dt>
          <dd>Contains predefined XML refactoring operations that pertain to elements. <ph
            keyref="product"/> considers the editing context to get the names and namespaces
            of the element or attribute for which the contextual menu was invoked, and uses
            this information to preconfigure some of the parameter values for the selected
            refactoring operation.</dd>
          <dd>
            <dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><uicontrol>Delete element</uicontrol></dt>
                <dd>Allows you to delete elements.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><uicontrol>Delete element content</uicontrol></dt>
                <dd>Allows you to delete the content of elements.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><uicontrol>Insert element</uicontrol></dt>
                <dd>Allows you to insert new elements.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><uicontrol>Rename element</uicontrol></dt>
                <dd>Allows you to rename elements.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><uicontrol>Unwrap element</uicontrol></dt>
                <dd>Allows you to remove the surrounding tags of elements, while keeping the
                  content unchanged.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><uicontrol>Wrap element</uicontrol></dt>
                <dd>Allows you to surround elements with element tags.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><uicontrol>Wrap element content</uicontrol></dt>
                <dd>Allows you to surround the content of elements with element tags.</dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="refactoring-fragments-dlentry">
          <dt><uicontrol>Fragments</uicontrol> submenu</dt>
          <dd>Contains predefined XML refactoring operations that pertain to XML fragments.
            <ph keyref="product"/> considers the editing context to get the names and
            namespaces of the element or attribute for which the contextual menu was invoked,
            and uses this information to preconfigure some of the parameter values for the
            selected refactoring operation.</dd>
          <dd>
            <dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><uicontrol>Insert XML fragment</uicontrol></dt>
                <dd>Allows you to insert an XML fragment.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><uicontrol>Replace element content with XML fragment</uicontrol></dt>
                <dd>Allows you to replace the content of elements with an XML fragment.</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><uicontrol>Replace element with XML fragment</uicontrol></dt>
                <dd>Allows you to replace elements with an XML fragment.</dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
