<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="reusables-ai-plugin">
  <title>reusables-ai-plugin</title>
  <body>
    <dl id="openai-settings">
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Address</dt>
        <dd>The web address of the OpenAI service. By default:
          <codeph>https://api.openai.com</codeph>.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>API key</dt>
        <dd>The <b>OpenAI</b> API key necessary to work with the connector. <note
          id="note_zj3_1ll_21c">This option does not get saved in the Project-level
          options.</note></dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Organization ID</dt>
        <dd>For users who belong to multiple organizations, they can specify which <xref
          href="https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/production-best-practices/setting-up-your-organization"
          format="html" scope="external">organization</xref> is used for an API request. Usage
          from these API requests will count as usage for the specified organization.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Default model</dt>
        <dd> The default model is used for the chat view and for actions that do not explicitly
          specify a model.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Enable text moderation</dt>
        <dd>This setting applies moderation (checks whether content complies with OpenAI's usage
          policies) to both the input text sent to the AI service and the response received from
          the AI service. It is enabled by default.<note id="note_ohy_4vn_h1c" type="tip">
            <p>By default, when executing an action using the <b>OpenAI</b> connector, three
              requests are made: </p>
            <ul id="ul_rg1_pvn_h1c">
              <li>A moderation on input content request to <xref
                href="https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/moderation/quickstart"
                format="html" scope="external"
                ><codeph>configured_web_address/v1/moderations</codeph></xref>.</li>
              <li>A completion request to <xref
                href="https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/text-generation" format="html"
                scope="external"
                ><codeph>configured_web_address/v1/chat/completions</codeph></xref>.</li>
              <li>
                <p>A moderation on content returned by AI to <xref
                  href="https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/moderation/quickstart"
                  format="html" scope="external"
                  ><codeph>configured_web_address/v1/moderations</codeph></xref>.</p>
                <p> If your AI service does not require moderation (for example, moderation is
                  already made by chat/completions endpoint) you can disable it by unchecking this
                  checkbox.</p>
              </li>
            </ul>
          </note></dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <dl id="reusables-ai-settings-extra-headers-openai">
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Extra Headers</dt>
        <dd>Extra name/value parameters to set in the headers that are specific for the AI
          requests.<note id="note_edk_3wn_h1c" type="tip">If the service uses <b>Bearer
            Authentication</b>, you can specify the key in the <b>Key</b> text field. If another
            authentication method is used, the <b>Key</b> field can be left empty, and the
            <b>Extra Headers</b> table can be used to set the authentication info on the request
            header. Note that editor variables can be used in this field and you can set your key
            in editor variables and specify the value in this table like this:
            <codeph>${env(AI_SERVICE_KEY)}</codeph> to access pre-set values of environmental
            variables.</note></dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <dl id="reusables-ms-azure-ai-settings">
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Endpoint</dt>
        <dd>The web address where the connector service is located. This value can be found in the
          <b>Keys &amp; Endpoint</b> section when examining your resource from the <b>Azure</b>
          portal. For example: <codeph>https://your-company-name.openai.azure.com/</codeph>.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Deployment</dt>
        <dd>The deployment name that was chosen when the model was deployed in <b>Microsoft
          Azure</b>.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>API key</dt>
        <dd>The <b>Microsoft Azure OpenAI Service</b> key necessary to work with the connector.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Vision - Specific Settings</dt>
        <dd><b>Vision</b> specific settings are only used when images are attached in the Chat panel
          or sent to the AI engine with specific actions like <b>Generate Documentation
            Draft</b>.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Vision - Endpoint</dt>
        <dd>Optional Azure AI deployment endpoint which can analyse images using <b>Vision</b>. The
          web address where the connector service is located. This value can be found in the <b>Keys
            &amp; Endpoint</b> section when examining your resource from the <b>Azure</b> portal.
          For example: <codeph>https://your-company-name.openai.azure.com/</codeph>.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Vision - Deployment</dt>
        <dd>The optional deployment name that was chosen when the <b>Vision</b> model was deployed
          in <b>Microsoft Azure</b>.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Vision - API key</dt>
        <dd>Optional <b>Microsoft Azure OpenAI Service</b> for the endpoint which can analyse images
          using <b>Vision</b>. </dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <dl id="reusables-ai-settings-extra-headers">
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Extra Headers</dt>
        <dd>Extra name/value parameters to set in the headers that are specific for the AI
          requests.</dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <dl id="reusables-claude-settings">
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Endpoint</dt>
        <dd>The web address where the connector service is located. By default, it is
          <codeph>https://api.anthropic.com/</codeph>.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>API key</dt>
        <dd>The <b>Anthropic Claude</b> API key necessary to work with the connector.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Model</dt>
        <dd>The <xref href="https://docs.anthropic.com/claude/docs/models-overview#key-features"
          format="html" scope="external">Anthropic Claude</xref> model to use. By default, it is
          <codeph>claude-3-opus-20240229</codeph>.</dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <dl>
      <dlentry id="reusables-ai-context">
        <dt>Context</dt>
        <dd>The context provides useful information about the user to the AI and is used in each
          action and chat request to create more relevant and personalized responses.</dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
  </body>
</topic>
