<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="reusables-cf">
  <title>Reusable Components for Content Fusion</title>
  <body>
    <section id="firewall_notes">
      <title>Firewall Notes</title>
      <p>The <b>Content Fusion Enterprise Virtual Machine</b> should have the following ports accessible:<ul>
          <li><b>80, 443</b> - For HTTP/HTTPS access to the main application.</li>
          <li><b>9080</b> - For access to the administration page (you may want to restrict access
            to only have this page available to certain computers).</li>
          <li><b>22</b> - For SSH access.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section id="initial_oxygen_content_fusion_configuration_in_th">
      <title>Initial Oxygen Content Fusion Configuration</title>
      <p>To configure <ph keyref="product"/> on the initial start of the VM, use the following
        procedure:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Access the administration web interface of <ph keyref="product"/> at:
            <codeph>https://&lt;server-address>:9080</codeph>.<note>By default, <ph keyref="product"
            /> uses a self-signed certificate, so the browser will display a security warning.
            Continue (for example, if you are using Edge or Internet Explorer, click <b>Details</b>
            and then <b>Go on to the webpage</b>).</note></li>
        <li>Login using the following credentials:<ul>
            <li><b>user</b> = <i>fusion</i></li>
            <li><b>password</b> = <i>oxygenxml</i></li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Change the password.</li>
        <li>In the <uicontrol>General</uicontrol> tab, configure the <uicontrol>Domain
            Name</uicontrol> of the server. To properly configure the server, you should associate a
          domain name for this server in your <term>DNS</term>.<p>You can also use the server IP
            address instead of the domain name. In this case, the server will run with several limitations:<ul>
              <li>The e-mail messages generated by the server are more likely to be considered as
                SPAM.</li>
              <li>HTTPS support cannot be enabled.</li>
            </ul><note>By default, the <uicontrol>Domain Name</uicontrol> is populated with one of
              the IP addresses associated with the server. It is recommended that you check this IP
              address to make sure it can be accessed by your end users.</note></p></li>
        <li>In the <uicontrol>License</uicontrol> tab:<ul>
            <li>If you already have a license key, choose the <uicontrol>Already have a license
                key</uicontrol> option, paste your license key in the text field and press
                <uicontrol>Activate</uicontrol>.</li>
            <li>Otherwise, choose the <uicontrol>Request a trial license key</uicontrol> option and
              complete the request form.</li>
          </ul></li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    <section id="configuring_oxygen_xml_editorauthor_to_connect_to">
      <title>Configuring Oxygen XML Editor/Author to Connect to Your Enterprise Server</title>
      <p>All <b>Content Authors</b> in your organization that will be uploading tasks will need to
        configure <term>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</term> to connect to your Enterprise server. You
        need to provide them with your Enterprise server URL and then each of them will need to
        follow the procedure found in: <xref
          href="../../topics/connect-to-enterprise-server.dita#connect-to-enterprise-server"/>.
        Alternatively, if you want to impose the server URL for all <b>Content Authors</b> so that
        they do not need to do any manual configuration, continue reading to learn how to use a
        properties file to impose the Enterprise server address.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="configuring_a_properties_file_to_instruct_oxygen_">
      <title>Configuring a Properties File to Instruct Oxygen XML Editor/Author to Connect to Your
        Enterprise Server</title>
      <p>You can create a properties file to specify the address of your Enterprise server. This
        server address will then be imposed when <term>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</term> connects to
        the server and the <b>Content Authors</b> that will be uploading tasks will not need to do
        any manual configuration. When they click <uicontrol>Connect</uicontrol>, your server
        address will be imposed and they will not have the ability to change it. To create the
        properties file, use this procedure:<ol>
          <li>Create a properties file named <filepath>oxygenContentFusion.properties</filepath>
            with the following content:<p>
              <codeblock outputclass="language-ini">server=[on-premise_server_address]</codeblock>
            </p><p>where <b>[on-premise_server_address]</b> is the URL of your on-premise server
              (for example, <filepath>http://myserver.com</filepath>).</p></li>
          <li>Save this file in <term>Oxygen's</term> default preferences directory. Depending on
            the platform and product you are using, this file is located in the following
              directories:<p>For <term>Oxygen XML Editor</term>:<ul>
                <li><b>Windows</b> -
                    <filepath>[user-home-folder]\AppData\Roaming\com.oxygenxml</filepath></li>
                <li><b>OS X</b> -
                    <filepath>[user-home-folder]\Library\Preferences\com.oxygenxml</filepath></li>
                <li><b>Linux</b> - <filepath>[user-home-folder]\.com.oxygenxml</filepath></li>
              </ul></p><p>For <term>Oxygen XML Author</term>:<ul>
                <li><b>Windows</b> -
                    <filepath>[user-home-folder]\AppData\Roaming\com.oxygenxml.author</filepath></li>
                <li><b>OS X</b> -
                    <filepath>[user-home-folder]\Library\Preferences\com.oxygenxml.author</filepath></li>
                <li><b>Linux</b> -
                  <filepath>[user-home-folder]\.com.oxygenxml.author</filepath></li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>Each <b>Content Author</b> needs to <xref
              href="../../topics/installing_the_content_fusion_plugin.dita#installing_the_content_fusion_plugin"
              >install the <uicontrol>Oxygen Content Fusion Connector</uicontrol> add-on</xref> in
              <term>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</term>, then open the <xref
              href="../../topics/cf_task_manager_view.dita#cf_task_manager_view">task management
              view</xref> and click <uicontrol>Connect</uicontrol>.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
