<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="reusables-webhelp-output-parameters">
  <title>WebHelp Output List of Parameters Reusables</title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_pdl_bgk_54b">DITA to WebHelp transformations parameters:<dl id="dl_qdl_bgk_54b">
        <dlentry id="dlentry_rdl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_args_default_language">default.language</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_args_default_language">This parameter is used if the language is not
              detected in the <term>DITA map</term>. The default value is
              <codeph>en-us</codeph>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_sdl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_clean_output">clean.output</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_clean_output">Deletes all files from the output folder before the
              transformation is performed (only <codeph>no</codeph> and <codeph>yes</codeph> values
              are valid and the default value is <codeph>no</codeph>).</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_tdl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_fix_external_refs_com_oxygenxml">fix.external.refs.com.oxygenxml</ph>
            <ph id="only_supported_message">(Only supported when the DITA-OT transformation process
              is started from <ph keyref="product"/>)</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_fix_external_refs_com_oxygenxml">The DITA Open Toolkit usually has
              problems processing references that point to locations outside of the directory of the
              processed <term>DITA map</term>. This parameter is used to specify whether or not the
              application should try to fix such references in a temporary files folder before the
              DITA Open Toolkit is invoked on the fixed references. The fix has no impact on your
              edited DITA content. Allowed values: <codeph>true</codeph> or <codeph>false</codeph>
              (default).</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_udl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_force_unique">force.unique</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_force_unique">When set to <codeph>true</codeph> (default value), the
              transformation will be forced to create unique output files for each instance of a
              resource when a map contains multiple references to a single topic.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_vdl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph>editlink.ditamap.edit.url</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>Use this parameter to add an <i>Edit</i> link next to the topic title in the
              WebHelp output. When a user clicks the link, the topic is opened in <b>Oxygen XML Web
                Author</b> or <b>Oxygen Content Fusion</b> where they can make changes that can be
              saved to a file server. The value should be set as the edit URL of the <term>main DITA
                map</term> used for publishing your content. The easiest way to obtain the URL is to
              open the DITA Map in Web Author or Content Fusion and copy the URL from the browser's
              address bar.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_wdl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph>editlink.additional.query.parameters</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>You can use this optional parameter to add additional parameters to be appended to
              each generated edit link. Each parameter must start with <i>&amp;</i> (for example:
                <i>&amp;tags-mode=no-tags</i>).</ph> Multiple parameters should be concatenated in
            this value.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_xdl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph-editlink-remote-ditamap-url">editlink.remote.ditamap.url</ph>
            (Deprecated)</dt>
          <dd><ph id="def-editlink-remote-ditamap-url">Use this parameter in conjunction with
                <codeph>editlink.web.author.url</codeph> to add an <i>Edit</i> link next to the
              topic title in the WebHelp output. When a user clicks the link, the topic is opened in
              Oxygen XML Web Author where they can make changes that can be saved to a file server.
              The value should be set as the custom URL of the <term>main DITA map</term>. For
              example, a GitHub custom URL might look like this:
                <filepath>https://getFileContent/oxyengxml/userguide/master/UserGuide.ditamap</filepath>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_ydl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph-editlink-web-author-url">editlink.web.author.url</ph> (Deprecated)</dt>
          <dd><ph id="def-editlink-web-author-url">This parameter needs to be used in conjunction
              with <codeph>editlink.remote.ditamap.url</codeph> to add an <i>Edit</i> link next to
              the topic title in the WebHelp output. When a user clicks the link, the topic is
              opened in Oxygen XML Web Author where they can make changes that can be saved to a
              file server. The value should be set as the URL of the Web Author installation. For
              example:
            <filepath>https://www.oxygenxml.com/oxygen-xml-web-author/</filepath>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_zdl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_use_stemming">use.stemming</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_use_stemming">Controls whether or not you want to include stemming search
              algorithms into the published output (default setting is
            <codeph>false</codeph>).</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_a2l_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_body_script">webhelp.body.script</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_body_script">URL value that specifies the location of a
              well-formed XHTML file containing the custom script that will be copied in the
                <xmlelement>body</xmlelement> of every WebHelp page.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_b2l_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_copyright">webhelp.copyright</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_copyright">Adds a small copyright text that appears at the end of
              the <uicontrol>Table of Contents</uicontrol> pane.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_c2l_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_custom_resources">webhelp.custom.resources</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_custom_resources">The file path to a directory that contains
              resources files. All files from this directory will be copied to the root of the
              WebHelp output.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_d2l_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_favicon">webhelp.favicon</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_favicon">The file path that points to an image to be used as a
                <i>favicon</i> in the WebHelp output.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_e2l_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_footer_file">webhelp.footer.file</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_footer_file">Path to an XML file that includes the footer content
              for your WebHelp output pages. You can use this parameter to integrate social media
              features such as widgets for <tm tmtype="tm">Facebook</tm>, <tm tmtype="tm">X</tm>
              (formerly known as Twitter), Google Analytics, or <tm tmtype="tm">Google+</tm>. The
              file must be well-formed, each widget must be in separate <xmlelement>div</xmlelement>
              or <xmlelement>span</xmlelement> element, and the code for each
                <xmlelement>script</xmlelement> element is included in an XML comment (also, the
              start and end tags for the XML comment must be on a separate line). The following code
              exert is an example for adding a <tm tmtype="tm">Facebook</tm>
            widget:</ph><codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="example_webhelp_footer_file">&lt;div id="facebook">
  &lt;div id="fb-root"/>
  &lt;script>
    &lt;!-- (function(d, s, id) { var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];
      if (d.getElementById(id)) return; 
      js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id;
      js.src = "//connect.facebook.net/en_US/sdk.js#xfbml=1&amp;version=v2.0"; 
      fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs); }
       (document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk')); -->
    &lt;/script>
    &lt;div data-share="true" data-show-faces="true" data-action="like"
       data-layout="standard" class="fb-like"/>
&lt;/div></codeblock></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_f2l_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_footer_include">webhelp.footer.include</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_footer_include">Specifies whether or not to include footer in each
              WebHelp page. Possible values: <codeph>yes</codeph>, <codeph>no</codeph>. If set to
                <codeph>no</codeph>, no footer is added to the WebHelp pages. If set to
                <codeph>yes</codeph> and the <codeph>webhelp.footer.file</codeph> parameter has a
              value, then the content of that file is used as footer. If the
                <codeph>webhelp.footer.file</codeph> has no value then a default <b>Oxygen</b>
              footer is inserted in each WebHelp page.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_g2l_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_google_search_results">webhelp.google.search.results</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_google_search_results">A file path that specifies the location of
              a well-formed XHTML file containing the Google Custom Search Engine element
                <codeph>gcse:searchresults-only</codeph>. You can use all supported attributes for
              this element. It is recommended to set the <xmlatt>linkTarget</xmlatt> attribute to
                <codeph>frm</codeph> for frameless (<i>iframe</i>) version of WebHelp or to
                <codeph>contentWin</codeph> for the frameset version of WebHelp. The default value
              for this attribute is <codeph>_blank</codeph> and the search results will be loaded in
              a new window. If this parameter is not specified, the following code will be used
                <codeph>&lt;gcse:searchresults-only
                linkTarget="frm">&lt;/gcse:searchresults-only></codeph>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_h2l_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_google_search_script">webhelp.google.search.script</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_google_search_script">A file path that specifies the location of a
              well-formed XHTML file containing the Custom Search Engine script from
            Google.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_i2l_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_head_script">webhelp.head.script</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_head_script">URL value that specifies the location of a
              well-formed XHTML file containing the custom script that will be copied in the
                <xmlelement>head</xmlelement> section of every WebHelp page.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_j2l_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_logo_image_target_url">webhelp.logo.image.target.url</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_logo_image_target_url">Specifies a target URL that is set on the
              logo image. When you click the logo image, you will be redirected to this
              address.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_logo_image_target_url_new_tab"
              >webhelp.logo.image.target.url.new.tab</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_logo_image_target_url_new_tab">Specifies if the URL of the link
              that is set on the logo image will be opened in a new tab.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_k2l_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_logo_image">webhelp.logo.image</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_logo_image">Specifies a path to an image displayed as a logo in
              the left side of the output header.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_l2l_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_logo_image_alt">webhelp.logo.image.alt</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_logo_image_alt">Specifies a value that will be set in the
                <xmlatt>alt</xmlatt> attribute of the logo image. If the parameter is not specified,
              the <xmlatt>alt</xmlatt> attribute will contain the publication title. Note that this
              parameter makes sense only in conjunction with the <codeph>webhelp.logo.image</codeph>
              parameter.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_m2l_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_product_id">webhelp.product.id</ph>
            <ph id="available_only_message">(available only for Feedback-enabled systems)</ph>
          </dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="def_webhelp_product_id">This parameter specifies a short name for the
              documentation target, or product (for example,
                <filepath>mobile-phone-user-guide</filepath>,
                <filepath>hvac-installation-guide</filepath>).<note id="note_n2l_bgk_54b">You can
                deploy documentation for multiple products on the same server.</note><note
                type="restriction" id="note_o2l_bgk_54b">The following characters are not allowed in
                the value of this parameter: <codeph>&lt; > / \ ' ( ) { } = ; * % +
                &amp;</codeph>.</note></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_p2l_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_product_version">webhelp.product.version</ph>
            <ph>(available only for Feedback-enabled systems)</ph></dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="def_webhelp_product_version">Specifies the documentation version number (for
              example, 1.0, 2.5, etc.). New user comments are bound to this version.<note
                id="note_q2l_bgk_54b">Multiple documentation versions can be deployed on the same
                server.</note><note type="restriction" id="note_r2l_bgk_54b">The following
                characters are not allowed in the value of this parameter: <codeph>&lt; > / \ ' ( )
                  { } = ; * % + &amp;</codeph>.</note></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_s2l_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_publishing_template_descriptor"
              >webhelp.publishing.template.descriptor</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_publishing_template_descriptor">Specifies the name of the
              descriptor to be loaded from the WebHelp Responsive template package. If it is not
              specified, the first encountered descriptor will be automatically loaded.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_t2l_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_publishing_template_root_path"
            >webhelp.publishing.template</ph></dt>
          <dd id="def_webhelp_publishing_template_root_path">Specifies the path to the ZIP archive
            (or root folder) that contains your custom WebHelp Responsive template.<note
              id="note_u2l_bgk_54b">The built-in templates are stored in the <filepath><term
                  keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"
                />/plugins/com.oxygenxml.webhelp.responsive/templates</filepath> folder.</note><note
              id="note_v2l_bgk_54b">Relative paths are resolved based on the current working
              directory.</note></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_w2l_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_reload_stylesheet">webhelp.reload.stylesheet</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_reload_stylesheet">Set this parameter to <codeph>true</codeph> if
              you have out of memory problems when generating WebHelp. It will increase processing
              time but decrease the memory footprint. The default value is
              <codeph>false</codeph>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_x2l_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_search_custom_excludes_file"
              >webhelp.search.custom.excludes.file</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_search_custom_excludes_file">The path of the file that contains
              name patterns for HTML files that should not be indexed by the WebHelp search engine.
              Each exclude pattern must be on a new line. The patterns are considered to be relative
              to the output directory, and they accept wildcards such as <userinput>'*'</userinput>
              (matches zero or more characters) or <userinput>'?'</userinput> (matches one
              character). For more information about the patterns, see <xref
                href="https://ant.apache.org/manual/dirtasks.html#patterns" format="html"
                scope="external"/>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_y2l_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_search_japanese_dictionary"
            >webhelp.search.japanese.dictionary</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_search_japanese_dictionary">The file path of the dictionary that
              will be used by the <i>Kuromoji</i> morphological engine for indexing Japanese content
              in the WebHelp pages. The encoding for the dictionary must be <b>UTF8</b>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_hsj_qfd_y5b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_search_default_operator">webhelp.search.default.operator</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_search_default_operator">Makes it possible to change the default
              operator for the search engine. Possible values are <codeph>and</codeph>,
                <codeph>or</codeph> (default). If set to <codeph>and</codeph> while the search query
              is WORD1 WORD2, the search engine only returns results for topics that contain both
              WORD1 and WORD2. If set to <codeph>or</codeph> and the search query is WORD1 WORD2,
              the search engine returns results for topics that contain either WORD1 or WORD2.</ph>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_z2l_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_search_enable_pagination"
            >webhelp.search.enable.pagination</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_search_enable_pagination">Specifies whether or not search results
              will be displayed on multiple pages. Allowed values are <codeph>yes</codeph> or
                <codeph>no</codeph>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_afl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_search_index_elements_to_exclude"
              >webhelp.search.index.elements.to.exclude</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_search_index_elements_to_exclude">Specifies a list of HTML
              elements that will not be indexed by the search engine. The value of the
                <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute can be used to exclude specific HTML elements from
              indexing. For example, the <b>div.not-indexed</b> value will not index all
                <xmlelement>div</xmlelement> elements that have a <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute
              with the value of <b>not-indexed</b>. Use a comma separator to specify more than one
              element.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_bfl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_search_page_numberOFItems"
            >webhelp.search.page.numberOfItems</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_search_page_numberOFItems">Specifies the number of search results
              items displayed on each page. This parameter is only used when the
                <b>webhelp.search.enable.pagination</b> parameter is enabled.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_cfl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_search_ranking">webhelp.search.ranking</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_search_ranking">If this parameter is set to <codeph>false</codeph>
              then the 5-star rating mechanism is no longer included in the search results that are
              displayed on the <uicontrol>Search</uicontrol> tab (default setting is
                <codeph>true</codeph>).</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_dfl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_search_stop_words_include"
            >webhelp.search.stop.words.include</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_search_stop_words_include">Specifies a list of words that will be
              ignored by the search engine. Use a comma separator to specify more than one
              word.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_efl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_show_changes_and_comments"
            >webhelp.show.changes.and.comments</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_show_changes_and_comments">When set to <codeph>yes</codeph>, user
              comments, replies to comments, and tracked changes are published in the WebHelp
              output. The default value is <codeph>no</codeph>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_ffl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_sitemap_base_user">webhelp.sitemap.base.url</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_sitemap_base_user">Base URL for all the
                <xmlelement>loc</xmlelement> elements in the generated
                <filepath>sitemap.xml</filepath> file. If this parameter is specified, the
                <uicontrol>loc</uicontrol> element will contain the value of this parameter plus the
              relative path to the page. If this parameter is not specified, the
                <uicontrol>loc</uicontrol> element will only contain the relative path of the page
              (the relative file path from the <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute of a
                <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element from the <term>DITA map</term>, appended
              to this base URL value).</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_gfl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_sitemap_change_frequency"
            >webhelp.sitemap.change.frequency</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_sitemap_change_frequency">The value of the
                <xmlelement>changefreq</xmlelement> element in the generated
                <filepath>sitemap.xml</filepath> file. The <xmlelement>changefreq</xmlelement>
              element is optional in <filepath>sitemap.xml</filepath>. If you leave this parameter
              set to its default empty value, then the <xmlelement>changefreq</xmlelement> element
              is not added in <filepath>sitemap.xml</filepath>. Allowed values: &lt;empty string>
              (default), <codeph>always</codeph>, <codeph>hourly</codeph>, <codeph>daily</codeph>,
                <codeph>weekly</codeph>, <codeph>monthly</codeph>, <codeph>yearly</codeph>,
                <codeph>never</codeph>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_hfl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_sitemap_priority">webhelp.sitemap.priority</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_sitemap_priority">The value of the
                <xmlelement>priority</xmlelement> element in the generated
                <filepath>sitemap.xml</filepath> file. It can be set to any fractional number
              between 0.0 (least important priority) and 1.0 (most important priority). For example,
              0.3, 0.5, or 0.8. The <xmlelement>priority</xmlelement> element is optional in
                <filepath>sitemap.xml</filepath>. If you leave this parameter set to its default
              empty value, then the <xmlelement>priority</xmlelement> element is not added in
                <filepath>sitemap.xml</filepath>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
    <!--DITA-specific:-->
    <p id="p_mfl_bgk_54b">
      <dl>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_rw4_xyv_swb">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_csh_disable_topicID_fallback"
              >webhelp.csh.disable.topicID.fallback</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_csh_disable_topicID_fallback">Specifies whether or not topic ID
                <term>fallbacks</term> are enabled when computing the mapping of context sensitive
              help and <codeph>resourceid</codeph> information is not available. Possible values are
                <b>false</b> (default) and <b>true</b>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
    <!--Responsive System Parameters-->
    <p id="p_pfl_bgk_54b">
      <dl id="dl_qfl_bgk_54b">
        <dlentry id="webhelp_product_version">
          <dt>
            <ph id="ph_webhelp_fragment_feedback">webhelp.fragment.feedback</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_fragment_feedback">You can integrate <xref
                href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/oxygen_feedback.html" format="html" scope="external"
                  ><b>Oxygen Feedback</b></xref> with your WebHelp Responsive output to provide a
              comments area at the bottom of each page where readers can offer feedback. When you
              create an <xref href="https://feedback.oxygenxml.com/" format="html" scope="external"
                  ><b>Oxygen Feedback</b> site configuration</xref>, an HTML fragment is generated
              during the final step of the creation process and that fragment should be set as the
              value for this parameter.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_rfl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_editlink_present_only_path_to_topic"
              >editlink.present.only.path.to.topic</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_editlink_present_only_path_to_topic">When this parameter is set to "true",
              the DITA topic path is displayed to the right of each topic title in the WebHelp
              Responsive output. Also, when this parameter is used, the
                <b>editlink.ditamap.edit.url</b>, <b>editlink.remote.ditamap.url</b>, and
                <b>editlink.web.author.url</b> parameters are ignored.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_sfl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_default_collection_type"
              >webhelp.default.collection.type.sequence</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_default_collection_type">Specifies if the <b>sequence</b> value
              will be used by default when the <xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt> attribute is not
              specified. This option is helpful if you want to have <i>Next</i> and <i>Previous</i>
              navigational buttons generated for all HTML pages. Allowed values are <b>no</b>
              (default) and <b>yes</b>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_idx_pwv_x5b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_enable_html_fragments_cleanup"
              >webhelp.enable.html.fragments.cleanup</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_enable_html_fragments_cleanup">Enables or disables the automatic
              conversion of HTML fragments to well-formed XML. If set to <b>true</b> (default), the
              transformation automatically converts non-well-formed HTML content to a well-formed
              XML equivalent. If set to <b>false</b>, the transformation will fail if at least one
              HTML fragment is not well-formed.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_y2z_jmt_s4b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_enable_scroll_to_search_term"
              >webhelp.enable.scroll.to.search.term</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_enable_scroll_to_search_term">Specifies whether or not the page
              should scroll to the first search term when opening the search results page. Possible
              values are <b>no</b> (default) and <b>true</b>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="fragment-dlentry">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_fragment_after_body">webhelp.fragment.after.body</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_fragment_after_body">This parameter can be used to display a given
              XHTML fragment after the body in all types of pages. The value of the parameter can be
              either a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_ljv_hps_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.after.body.main.page</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment after the body in the
              main page. The value of the parameter can be either a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML
              fragment or a path to a file that contains a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML
            fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_l5q_zqs_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.after.body.topic.page</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment after the body in the
              topic page. The value of the parameter can be either a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML
              fragment or a path to a file that contains a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML
            fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_om3_qss_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.after.body.search.page</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment after the body in the
              search results page. The value of the parameter can be either a <b>well-formed</b>
              XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML
              fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_hkj_qss_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.after.body.terms.page</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment after the body in the
              index terms page. The value of the parameter can be either a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML
              fragment or a path to a file that contains a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML
            fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_tfl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_fragment_after_logo_and_title"
              >webhelp.fragment.after.logo_and_title</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_fragment_after_logo_and_title">This parameter can be used to
              display a given XHTML fragment after the logo and title in all types of pages. The
              value of the parameter can be either a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to
              a file that contains a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_ufl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_fragment_after_search_input"
              >webhelp.fragment.after.search.input</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_fragment_after_search_input">This parameter can be used to display
              a given XHTML fragment after the search field in all types of pages. The value of the
              parameter can be either a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that
              contains a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_ig3_pjs_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_fragment_after_main_page_search"
              >webhelp.fragment.after.main.page.search (deprecated)</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_fragment_after_main_page_search">This parameter is deprecated. Use
                <codeph>webhelp.fragment.after.search.input.main.page</codeph> instead.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_wkt_5qs_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.after.search.input.main.page</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment after the search
              field in all the main page. The value of the parameter can be either a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_gdz_grs_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.after.search.input.topic.page</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment after the search
              field in all the topic page. The value of the parameter can be either a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_rdr_yss_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.after.search.input.search.page</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment after the search
              field in all the search results page. The value of the parameter can be either a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_axr_yss_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.after.search.input.terms.page</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment after the search
              field in all the index terms page. The value of the parameter can be either a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_vfl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_fragment_after_toc_or_tiles"
              >webhelp.fragment.after.toc_or_tiles</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_fragment_after_toc_or_tiles">This parameter can be used to display
              a given XHTML fragment after the table of contents or tiles in the main page. The
              value of the parameter can be either a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to
              a file that contains a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_wfl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_fragment_after_top_menu">webhelp.fragment.after.top_menu</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_fragment_after_top_menu">This parameter can be used to display a
              given XHTML fragment after the top menu in all types of pages. The value of the
              parameter can be either a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that
              contains a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_xfl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_fragment_before_body">webhelp.fragment.before.body</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_fragment_before_body">This parameter can be used to display a
              given XHTML fragment before the page body in all types of pages. The value of the
              parameter can be either a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that
              contains a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_amb_1ps_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.before.body.main.page</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment before the page body
              in the main page. The value of the parameter can be either a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML
              fragment or a path to a file that contains a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML
            fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_wkm_yqs_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.before.body.topic.page</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment before the page body
              in the topic page. The value of the parameter can be either a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML
              fragment or a path to a file that contains a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML
            fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_ql3_4ss_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.before.body.search.page</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment before the page body
              in the search results page. The value of the parameter can be either a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_xjj_4ss_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.before.body.terms.page</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment before the page body
              in the index terms page. The value of the parameter can be either a <b>well-formed</b>
              XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML
              fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_yfl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_fragment_before_logo_and_title"
              >webhelp.fragment.before.logo_and_title</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_fragment_before_logo_and_title">This parameter can be used to
              display a given XHTML fragment before the logo and title. The value of the parameter
              can be either a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_zfl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_fragment_before_search_input"
              >webhelp.fragment.before.search.input</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_fragment_before_search_input">This parameter can be used to
              display a given XHTML fragment before the search field in all types of pages. The
              value of the parameter can be either a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to
              a file that contains a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_cfl_sjs_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_fragment_before_main_page_search"
              >webhelp.fragment.before.main.page.search (deprecated)</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_fragment_before_main_page_search">This parameter is deprecated.
              Use <codeph>webhelp.fragment.before.search.input.main.page</codeph> instead.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_efg_qps_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.before.search.input.main.page</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment before the search
              field in the main page. The value of the parameter can be either a <b>well-formed</b>
              XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML
              fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_z3d_grs_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.before.search.input.topic.page</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment before the search
              field in the topic page. The value of the parameter can be either a <b>well-formed</b>
              XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML
              fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_onv_wss_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.before.search.input.search.page</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment before the search
              field in the search results page. The value of the parameter can be either a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_sjw_wss_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.before.search.input.terms.page</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment before the search
              field in the index terms page. The value of the parameter can be either a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_agl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_fragment_before_toc_or_tiles"
              >webhelp.fragment.before.toc_or_tiles</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_fragment_before_toc_or_tiles">This parameter can be used to
              display a given XHTML fragment before the table of contents or tiles in the main page.
              The value of the parameter can be either a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path
              to a file that contains a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_bgl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_fragment_before_top_menu"
            >webhelp.fragment.before.top_menu</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_fragment_before_top_menu">This parameter can be used to display a
              given XHTML fragment before the top menu in all types of pages. The value of the
              parameter can be either a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that
              contains a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_cgl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_fragment_footer">webhelp.fragment.footer</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_fragment_footer">This parameter can be used to display a given
              XHTML fragment as the page footer in all types of pages. The value of the parameter
              can be either a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph><note type="important"
              id="note_webhelp_fragment_footer">This parameter should only be used if you are using
              a valid, purchased license of <ph keyref="product"/> (do not use it with a trial
              license).</note></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_dgl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_fragment_head">webhelp.fragment.head</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_fragment_head">This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML
              fragment in the header section in all types of pages. The value of the parameter can
              be either a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_hmg_j4s_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.head.main.page</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment in the header section
              in the main page. The value of the parameter can be either a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML
              fragment or a path to a file that contains a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML
            fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_rlz_wqs_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.head.topic.page</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment in the header section
              in the topic page. The value of the parameter can be either a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML
              fragment or a path to a file that contains a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML
            fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_k42_lss_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.head.search.page</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment in the header section
              in the search results page. The value of the parameter can be either a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_prs_lss_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.head.terms.page</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment in the header section
              in the index terms page. The value of the parameter can be either a <b>well-formed</b>
              XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML
              fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_egl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_fragment_welcome">webhelp.fragment.welcome</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_fragment_welcome">This parameter can be used to display a given
              XHTML fragment as a welcome message (or title). The value of the parameter can be
              either a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_bxz_nns_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.after.header</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment after the header
              section in all types of pages. The value of the parameter can be either a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_d3y_mps_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.after.header.main.page</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment after the header
              section in the main page. The value of the parameter can be either a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_v4g_brs_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.after.header.topic.page</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment after the header
              section in the topic page. The value of the parameter can be either a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_cld_tss_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.after.header.search.page</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment after the header
              section in the search results page. The value of the parameter can be either a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_qg2_tss_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.after.header.terms.page</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment after the header
              section in the index terms page. The value of the parameter can be either a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_gfv_vns_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.before.search.input</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment before the search
              field in all types of pages. The value of the parameter can be either a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_yfb_14s_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.after.search.input</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment after the search
              field in all types of pages. The value of the parameter can be either a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_ith_b4s_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.before.main.content.area</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment before the main
              content section in all types of pages. The value of the parameter can be either a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_yjj_mqs_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.before.main.content.area.main.page</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment before the main
              content section in the main page. The value of the parameter can be either a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_a2p_3rs_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.before.main.content.area.topic.page</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment before the main
              content section in the topic page. The value of the parameter can be either a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_hl4_bts_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.before.main.content.area.search.page</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment before the main
              content section in the search results page. The value of the parameter can be either a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_pfp_bts_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.before.main.content.area.terms.page</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment before the main
              content section in the index terms page. The value of the parameter can be either a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_gzm_d4s_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.after.main.content.area</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment after the main
              content section in all types of pages. The value of the parameter can be either a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_fgv_4qs_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.after.main.content.area.main.page</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment after the main
              content section in the main page. The value of the parameter can be either a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_ijw_jrs_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.after.main.content.area.topic.page</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment after the main
              content section in the topic page. The value of the parameter can be either a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_ysp_lrs_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.before.topic.toolbar</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment before the toolbar
              buttons above the topic content in the topic page. The value of the parameter can be
              either a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_izm_qrs_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.after.topic.toolbar</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment after the toolbar
              buttons above the topic content in the topic page. The value of the parameter can be
              either a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_gmk_rrs_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.before.topic.breadcrumb</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment before the breadcrumb
              component in the topic page. The value of the parameter can be either a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_jqk_trs_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.after.topic.breadcrumb</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment after the breadcrumb
              component in the topic page. The value of the parameter can be either a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_spl_5rs_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.before.publication.toc</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment before the
              publication's table of contents component in the topic page. The value of the
              parameter can be either a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that
              contains a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_qcz_wrs_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.after.publication.toc</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment before the
              publication's table of contents component in the topic page. The value of the
              parameter can be either a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that
              contains a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_mjs_yrs_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.before.topic.content</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment before the topic's
              content in the topic page. The value of the parameter can be either a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_ys1_1ss_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.after.topic.content</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment after the topic's
              content in the topic page. The value of the parameter can be either a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_wfw_1ss_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.before.feedback</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment before the <b>Oxygen
                Feedback</b> commenting component in the topic page. The value of the parameter can
              be either a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_ism_2ss_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.after.feedback</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment after the <b>Oxygen
                Feedback</b> commenting component in the topic page. The value of the parameter can
              be either a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_z5b_3ss_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.before.topic.toc</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment before the topic's
              table of contents component in the topic page. The value of the parameter can be
              either a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_myw_3ss_54b">
          <dt><ph>webhelp.fragment.after.topic.toc</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph>This parameter can be used to display a given XHTML fragment after the topic's
              table of contents component in the topic page. The value of the parameter can be
              either a <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment or a path to a file that contains a
                <b>well-formed</b> XHTML fragment.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_fgl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_fragment_custom_search_engine_results"
              >webhelp.fragment.custom.search.engine.results</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_fragment_custom_search_engine_results">This parameter can be used
              to replace the search results area with custom XHTML content. The value of the
              parameter is the path to an XHTML file that contains your custom content.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_ggl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_fragment_custom_search_engine_script"
              >webhelp.fragment.custom.search.engine.script</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_fragment_custom_search_engine_script">This parameter can be used
              to replace WebHelp's built-in search engine with your own custom search engine. The
              value of the parameter is the path to an XHTML file that contains the scripts required
              for your custom search engine to run.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_hgl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_merge_nested_topics_related_links"
              >webhelp.merge.nested.topics.related.links</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_merge_nested_topics_related_links">Specifies if the related links
              from nested topics will be merged with the links in the parent topic. Thus the links
              will be moved from the topic content to the related links component and all of the
              links from the same group (for example, <i>Related Tasks</i>, <i>Related
                References</i>, <i>Related Information</i>) are merged into a single group. The
              default value is <codeph>yes</codeph>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_dh5_5tj_jpb">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_rellinks.group.mode"
            >webhelp.rellinks.group.mode</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_rellinks.group.mode">Specifies the related links grouping mode.
              All links can be grouped into a single "Related Information" heading or links can be
              grouped by their target type (topic, task, or concept). Allowed values:
                <b>single-group</b> (default) or <b>group-by-type</b>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_igl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_search_stop.words.exclude"
            >webhelp.search.stop.words.exclude</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_search_stop.words.exclude">Specifies a list of words that will be
              excluded from the default list of <i>stop words</i> that are filtered out before the
              search processing. Use comma separators to specify more than one word (for example:
                <codeph>if,for,is</codeph>).</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_jgl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_show_breadcrumb">webhelp.show.breadcrumb</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_show_breadcrumb">Specifies if the breadcrumb component will be
              presented in the output. The default value is <codeph>yes</codeph>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_kgl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_show_child_links">webhelp.show.child.links</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_show_child_links">Specifies if child links will be generated in
              the output for all topics that have subtopics. The default value is
                <codeph>no</codeph>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_lgl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_show_full_size_image">webhelp.show.full.size.image</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_show_full_size_image">Specifies if responsive images that are
              displayed with a smaller dimension than their original size can be clicked to see an
              enlarged version of the image. The default value is <codeph>yes</codeph>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_mgl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_show_indexterms_link">webhelp.show.indexterms.link</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_show_indexterms_link">Specifies if an icon that links to the index
              terms page will be displayed in the output. The default value is <codeph>yes</codeph>
              (meaning the index terms icon is displayed). If set to <codeph>false</codeph>, the
              index terms icon is not displayed in the output and the index terms page is not
              generated.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_anf_fyb_mfc">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_enable_dark_mode">webhelp.enable.dark.mode</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_enable_dark_mode">Specifies if the dark mode is enabled in the in
              the output. The default value is <codeph>no</codeph> (no theme menu is displayed). If
              set to <codeph>yes</codeph>, a menu will appear, and the output will reflect either
              the browser settings or the user's preference.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_ngl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_show_main_page_tiles">webhelp.show.main.page.tiles</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_show_main_page_tiles">Specifies if the tiles component will be
              presented in the main page of the output. For a <i>tree</i> style layout, this
              parameter should be set to <codeph>no</codeph>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_ogl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_show_main_page_toc">webhelp.show.main.page.toc</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_show_main_page_toc">Specifies if the table of contents will be
              presented in the main page of the output. The default value is
              <codeph>yes</codeph>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_show_expand_collapse_sections"
              >webhelp.show.expand.collapse.sections</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_show_expand_collapse_sections">Specifies if links to collapse
              sections will be presented within each topic in the output. Collapsing sections will
              collapse all collapsible elements (nested topics with titles, sections with titles, or
              tables with titles). The default value is <codeph>yes</codeph>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_pgl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_show_navigation_links">webhelp.show.navigation.links</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_show_navigation_links">Specifies if navigation links will be
              presented in the output. The default value is <codeph>yes</codeph>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_qgl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_show_print_link">webhelp.show.print.link</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_show_print_link">Specifies if a print link or icon will be
              presented within each topic in the output. The default value is
              <codeph>yes</codeph>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_rgl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_show_related_links">webhelp.show.related.links</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_show_related_links">Specifies if the related links component will
              be presented in the WebHelp Responsive output. The default value is
                <codeph>yes</codeph>. The <codeph>webhelp.merge.nested.topics.related.links</codeph>
              parameter can be used in conjunction with this one to merge the related links from
              nested topics into the links in the parent topic.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_sgl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_show_side_toc">webhelp.show.publication.toc</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_show_side_toc">Specifies if a table of contents will be presented
              on the left side of each topic in the output. The default value is
                <codeph>yes</codeph>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_tgl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_show_topic_toc">webhelp.show.topic.toc</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_show_topic_toc">Specifies if a topic table of contents will be
              presented on the right side of each topic in the output. This table of contents
              contains links to each <xmlelement>section</xmlelement> within the current topic that
              contains an <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute and the section corresponding to the current
              scroll position is highlighted. The default value is <codeph>yes</codeph>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_ugl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_show_top_menu">webhelp.show.top.menu</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_show_top_menu">Specifies if a menu will be presented at the topic
              of the main page in the output. The default value is <codeph>yes</codeph>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_mjr_wwd_dvb">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_skip_main_page_generation"
            >webhelp.skip.main.page.generation</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_skip_main_page_generation">If set to <codeph>true</codeph>, the
              default main page is not generated in the output. The default value is
                <codeph>false</codeph>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_vgl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_side_toc_hide_chunked_topics"
              >webhelp.publication.toc.hide.chunked.topics</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_side_toc_hide_chunked_topics">Specifies if the table of contents
              will contain links for <i>chunked</i> topics. The default value is
                <codeph>yes</codeph>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_wgl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_side_toc_links">webhelp.publication.toc.links</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_side_toc_links">Specifies which links will be included in the
              table of contents. The possible values are:</ph><ul id="ul_webhelp_side_toc_links">
              <li id="li_xgl_bgk_54b"><b>chapter</b> (default) - The TOC will include links for the current topic, its
                children, its siblings, and its direct ancestor (including the direct ancestor's
                siblings), and the parent chapter.</li>
              <li id="li_ygl_bgk_54b"><b>topic</b> - The TOC will only include links for the current topic and its
                direct children.</li>
              <li id="li_zgl_bgk_54b"><b>all</b> - The TOC will include all links.</li>
            </ul></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_ahl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_side_toc_tooltip_position"
              >webhelp.publication.toc.tooltip.position</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_side_toc_tooltip_position">By default, if a topic contains a
            <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> element, its content is displayed in a tooltip when the
              user hovers over its link in the table of contents. This parameter controls whether or
              not this tooltip is displayed and its position relative to the link. The possible
              values are:</ph><ul id="ul_webhelp_side_toc_tooltip_position">
              <li id="li_bhl_bgk_54b"><b>left</b></li>
              <li id="li_chl_bgk_54b"><b>right</b> (default)</li>
              <li id="li_dhl_bgk_54b"><b>top</b></li>
              <li id="li_ehl_bgk_54b"><b>bottom</b></li>
              <li id="li_fhl_bgk_54b"><b>hidden</b> - The tooltip will not be displayed.</li>
            </ul></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_ghl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_enable_search_autocomplete"
            >webhelp.enable.search.autocomplete</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_enable_search_autocomplete">Specifies if the <i>Autocomplete</i>
              feature is enabled in the WebHelp search text field. The default value is
                <codeph>yes</codeph>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_ob1_cvl_4qb222">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_top_menu_activated">webhelp.top.menu.activated.on.click</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_top_menu_activated">When this parameter is activated (set to
                <codeph>yes</codeph>), clicking an item in the top menu will expand the submenu (if
              available). You can then click on a submenu item to open the item (topic). You can
              click outside the menu or press <uicontrol><shortcut>ESC</shortcut></uicontrol> to
              hide the menu. When set to <codeph>no</codeph> (default), hovering over a menu item
              displays the menu content.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_hhl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_top_menu_depth">webhelp.top.menu.depth</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_top_menu_depth">Specifies the maximum depth level of the topics
              that will be included in the top menu. The default value is <codeph>3</codeph>. A
              value of <codeph>0</codeph> means that the menu has unlimited depth.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_ihl_bgk_54b">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_topic_collapsible_elements_initial_state"
              >webhelp.topic.collapsible.elements.initial.state</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_topic_collapsible_elements_initial_state">Specifies the initial
              state of collapsible elements (nested topics with titles, sections with titles, tables
              with titles or index term groups). The possible values are <codeph>collapsed</codeph>
              or <codeph>expanded</codeph> (default value).</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_lnt_tw1_nqb">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_figure_title_placement">webhelp.figure.title.placement</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_figure_title_placement">Controls the placement of the title for
              figures (relative to the image). Possible values include <b>top</b> (default) and
                <b>bottom</b>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_qbl_tw1_nqb">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_table_title_placement">webhelp.table.title.placement</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_table_title_placement">Controls the placement of the title for
              tables. Possible values include <b>top</b> (default) and <b>bottom</b>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_xxr_m4s_rsb">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_enable_sticky_publication_toc">webhelp.enable.sticky.publication.toc</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_enable_sticky_publication_toc">Controls whether or not the publication table of contents will remain
                <term>sticky</term> in the output. Possible values are <b>yes</b> (default) or
                <b>no</b>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_wss_cx5_x2c">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_enable_sticky_table_headers"
              >webhelp.enable.sticky.table.headers</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_enable_sticky_table_headers">Controls whether or not table
              headers will remain <term>sticky</term> in the output when the tables are taller than
              the viewport height. Possible values are <b>yes</b> or <b>no</b> (default).</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_bqw_2ts_rsb">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_enable_sticky_topic_toc">webhelp.enable.sticky.topic.toc</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_enable_sticky_topic_toc">Controls whether or not the topic table
              of contents will remain <term>sticky</term> in the output. Possible values are
                <b>yes</b> (default) or <b>no</b>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_mbr_3ss_rsb">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_enable_sticky_header">webhelp.enable.sticky.header</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_enable_sticky_header">Controls whether or not the header section
              will remain <term>sticky</term> in the output. Possible values are <b>yes</b>
              (default) or <b>no</b>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_gmc_l1h_bzb">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_labels_generation_mode">webhelp.labels.generation.mode</ph></dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="def_webhelp_labels_generation_mode">Controls whether or not labels are generated
              in the output. These labels are useful because users can easily search for topics with
              the same label by simply clicking on the label presented in the output. Possible
              values are:<ul id="ul_mhm_w1h_bzb">
                <li id="li_nhm_w1h_bzb"><b>keywords-label</b> - Generates labels for each defined
                    <xmlelement>keyword</xmlelement> element that has the
                    <xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt> attribute value set to <b>label</b>.</li>
                <li id="li_okv_kbh_bzb"><b>keywords</b> - Generates labels for each defined
                    <xmlelement>keyword</xmlelement> element. If the topic contains
                    <xmlelement>keyword</xmlelement> elements with the <xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt>
                  attribute value set to <b>label</b>, then only these elements will have labels
                  generated for them in the output.</li>
                <li id="li_zvf_4bh_bzb"><b>disable</b> - Disables the generation of labels in the
                  Webhelp Responsive output.</li>
              </ul></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="dlentry_klx_51d_52c">
          <dt><ph id="ph_webhelp_full_page_width">webhelp.full.page.width</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_full_page_width">Determines whether or not the content should use
              the entire page space. This is most beneficial for large displays such as 4K. Possible
              values are <b>no</b> (default) or <b>yes</b>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
