<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="reusables-webhelp-chapter">
  <title>WebHelp Chapter Reusables</title>
  <body>
    <!--WebHelp plugin installation steps-->
    <p id="p_s3l_bgk_54b"><ph id="step_donwload">Go to <xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/xml_webhelp/download_oxygenxml_webhelp.html" format="html"
          scope="external">Oxygen XML WebHelp website</xref>, download the latest <abbreviated-form
          keyref="glossentry-dita-ot"/> version of the <ph keyref="product"/> installation kit, and
        unzip it.</ph>
    </p>
    <p id="p_t3l_bgk_54b"><ph id="step_copy_content">Copy all <term>plugin</term> directories from the unpacked archive
        to the <filepath>plugins</filepath> directory of the <abbreviated-form
          keyref="glossentry-dita-ot"/> distribution. This is necessary to enable certain
        functionality. For example, the <filepath>com.oxygenxml.highlight</filepath> directory adds
        syntax highlight capabilities to your WebHelp output for <xmlelement>codeblock</xmlelement>
        elements that contain source code snippets (XML, Java, JavaScript).</ph>
    </p>
    <p id="p_u3l_bgk_54b"><ph id="step_run_integrator">In the <filepath><abbreviated-form
            keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"/>/bin</filepath> directory of the <abbreviated-form
          keyref="glossentry-dita-ot"/>, run one of the following scripts, depending on your
        operating system:</ph><ul id="script-ul" outputclass="wh-tabbed">
        <li id="li_v3l_bgk_54b"><ph>Windows</ph><codeph><abbreviated-form
              keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"/>/bin/dita.bat --install</codeph></li>
        <li id="li_w3l_bgk_54b"><ph>Linux/macOS</ph><codeph>sh <abbreviated-form
              keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"/>/bin/dita --install</codeph></li>
      </ul></p>
    <!--Upgrade note-->
    <note type="important" id="upgrade-note">The first step of the procedure below instructs you to
      delete old directories/files before proceeding with the upgrade. It is recommended that you
      make a backup of these directories/files before deleting them. Make sure you make a backup of
      the <filepath>licensekey.txt</filepath> file since you will need the information contained in
      this file later in the upgrading procedure.</note>
    <note id="note_it1_4fp_xfc">Built-in CSS rules will automatically use the variables defined here
      and in the next step.</note>
    <note id="note_rwx_sxn_xfc">If you are using the same color in both light and dark modes, you
      only need to define it for the light mode.</note>
  </body>
</topic>
