<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="reusables-cf-wa-waCustom">
  <title>Reusable Components for Content Fusion/Web Author/WA Custom</title>
  <body>
    <!--Reusables for customizing options that are the same for CF/WA/WACustom-->
    <p id="options-p1">The options file has the following
      format:<codeblock outputclass="xml">&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;serialized version="18.1" xml:space="preserve">
  &lt;serializableOrderedMap> 
    &lt;entry>
      &lt;String>author.show.comments&lt;/String>
      &lt;Boolean>true&lt;/Boolean>       
    &lt;/entry>
  &lt;/serializableOrderedMap>
&lt;/serialized></codeblock>An
      additional <xmlelement>entry</xmlelement> should be added in this file for each option.</p>
    <p id="options-p2"><table>
        <title><b>Oxygen XML Editor/Author Options Supported in <ph product="webauthor waCustom"
              >Oxygen XML Web Author</ph><ph product="fusion">Oxygen Content Fusion</ph></b></title>
        <tgroup cols="3" id="options-tgroup1">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="3.25*"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="newCol3" colnum="3" colwidth="2.75*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Key</entry>
              <entry>Type</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>additional.frameworks.directories</entry>
              <entry>See example entry below the table</entry>
              <entry>
                <p>An array of java.lang.String objects representing paths to the additional
                    <term>frameworks</term> folders (may also contain editor variables). </p>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>ADMIN_PAGE_IS_DISABLED</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry><codeph>true</codeph> to disable the Administration Page completely.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>author.convert.external.content.on.paste</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>
                <p>Option that controls whether or not the content pasted in Author mode should be
                  converted to match the destination styles.</p>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>author.convert.external.content.space.preserve</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>
                <p>Option that controls whether or not the content pasted in
                    <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode should be converted to match the destination
                  styles in <term>space-preserved elements</term>.</p>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>author.format.compatibility</entry>
              <entry>Integer</entry>
              <entry>Use this option to control how line breaks are handled when a document is
                    serialized.<p><b>0</b> - (Default value) None.</p><p><b>1</b> - Do not break, do
                  not indent.</p><p><b>2</b> - Break lines only after block elements, do not
                  indent.</p></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>author.image.width.autoscale.limit</entry>
              <entry>Integer</entry>
              <entry>If set to a value greater than 0, images wider than this number of pixels will
                be resized. By default 1024.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>author.show.comments</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>Show the comment nodes in the author page.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>author.show.processing.instructions</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>Show the pi nodes in the author page.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>auto.correct.double.quotes</entry>
              <entry>See example entry below the table</entry>
              <entry>If set, Web Author automatically replaces double quotes with the specified
                quotation symbols. </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>auto.correct.single.quotes</entry>
              <entry>See example entry below the table</entry>
              <entry>If set, Web Author automatically replaces single quotes with the specified
                quotation symbols. </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>autocorrect.feature.state</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>Used to enable/disable the auto-correct feature.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>autocorrect.use.suggeestions.from.spell.check.dicts</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>Used to enrich the auto-correct suggestions with entries from spell checking
                dictionaries.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>automatically.accept.certificates</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>Option that controls if Oxygen will accept all HTTPS certificates.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>default.xml.schema.version</entry>
              <entry>String</entry>
              <entry>The XML Schema version to use if it is not specified in the schema file (see
                the schema version note below the table). The default version is <b>1.0</b>.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>dita.fill.link.format.attribute</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>Use <b>true</b> to force the insertion of the <codeph>format</codeph> attribute
                when inserting a link in DITA even when the attribute has a default value.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>dita.fill.link.scope.attribute</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>Use <b>true</b> to force the insertion of the <codeph>scope</codeph> attribute
                when inserting a link in DITA even when the attribute has a default value.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>dita.fill.link.type.attribute</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>Use <b>true</b> to force the insertion of the <codeph>type</codeph> attribute
                when inserting a link in DITA even when the attribute has a default value.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>dita.ot.directory</entry>
              <entry>String</entry>
              <entry>The directory path to the default DITA OT installation.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>editor.line.width</entry>
              <entry>Integer</entry>
              <entry>Used to define the number of characters after which a hard line-wrapping action
                is performed (default is 100).</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>http.max.simultaneous.connections.per.host</entry>
              <entry>Integer</entry>
              <entry>Limits the number of connections the HTTP client can open to the same server
                host.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>http.proxy.direct</entry>
              <entry>String</entry>
              <entry>Comma-separated list of hosts for which the proxy is bypassed.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>http.proxy.host</entry>
              <entry>String</entry>
              <entry>Proxy hostname or IP address.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>http.proxy.password</entry>
              <entry>String</entry>
              <entry>Proxy password.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>http.proxy.port</entry>
              <entry>Integer</entry>
              <entry>Proxy port.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>http.proxy.set</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>HTTP proxy uses manual configuration.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>http.proxy.system</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>"True" to detect HTTP proxy from system.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>http.proxy.user</entry>
              <entry>String</entry>
              <entry>Proxy user.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>http.read.timeout.seconds</entry>
              <entry>Integer</entry>
              <entry>An integer number that configures the timeout used when waiting for an HTTP
                request.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>insertOnlyElementsFromCCList</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>If set to <b>true</b>, the content completion list will only show elements that
                are valid at the current position.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Schematron_custom_language</entry>
              <entry>String</entry>
              <entry>The two-letter country code (for example:
                  <codeph>en</codeph>,<codeph>fr</codeph>).</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Schematron_language_option</entry>
              <entry>Integer</entry>
              <entry>
                <p><b>2</b> (default value) - The Schematron <codeph>xml:lang</codeph> value defined
                  on the root of the schema will be used.</p>
                <p><b>3</b> - The language attributes are ignored. All messages will be
                  presented.</p>
                <p><b>4</b> - A custom language defined by the option
                    <codeph>Schematron_custom_language</codeph>will be used.</p>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>show.caret.position.info</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>Use <b>false</b> to disable the tooltip popup that is normally displayed at the
                cursor position.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>showAllPossibleElementsInCCList</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>If set to <b>true</b>, the content completion list will show all the elements
                in the schema, even those that are not valid at the current position.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry id="spell-check-options-entry">spell.check.options</entry>
              <entry>See example entry below the table</entry>
              <entry>Can be used to set some spell-checking options, including the default language
                used when no <codeph>xml:lang</codeph> attribute is set.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry id="topic-content-refs-limit">topic.content.refs.limit</entry>
              <entry>Integer</entry>
              <entry>The maximum number of references that can be contained within a DITA map to
                display it in the <uicontrol>View Topic Content</uicontrol> mode.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>track.changes.initial.state</entry>
              <entry>Integer</entry>
              <entry>Option for <term>track changes</term> initial state.<ul>
                  <li><b>0</b> - Initial state stored in document.</li>
                  <li><b>1</b> - <term>Track changes</term> always on.</li>
                  <li><b>2</b> - <term>Track changes</term> always off.</li>
                </ul></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>undo.history.limit.v10.3</entry>
              <entry>Integer</entry>
              <entry>The number of operations that can be undone. By default 200.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>validate.as.you.type</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry>Use <b>false</b> to turn off the automatic validation.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>validate.max.errors.number</entry>
              <entry>Integer</entry>
              <entry>The maximum number of validation errors that can be shown. Default value is
                100.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>WEBAPP_SHOW_ADMIN_PAGE_LINK</entry>
              <entry>Boolean</entry>
              <entry><codeph>true</codeph> to display the admin page link on the dashboard.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table><note type="other" othertype="Schema Version Note" id="options-note1">To specify an
        XML Schema version (for example, 1.1) directly in the schema file, you need to add an
        attribute to the namespace declaration like
        this:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">xmlns:vc="http://www.w3.org/2007/XMLSchema-versioning" vc:minVersion="1.1"</codeblock></note>
      <ph id="options-ph1">Example entry for <b>additional.frameworks.directories</b> option:</ph><codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;entry>
  &lt;String>
   additional.frameworks.directories
  &lt;/String>
  &lt;String-array>
    &lt;String>
     /path/to/frameworks
    &lt;/String>
  &lt;/String-array>
&lt;/entry></codeblock>
      <ph id="options-ph2">Example entry for <b>auto.correct.single.quotes</b> and
          <b>auto.correct.double.quotes</b> option:</ph><codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;entry> 
  &lt;String>auto.correct.single.quotes&lt;/String> &lt;!–- or auto.correct.double.quotes  -->
  &lt;autoCorrectQuotes>
    &lt;field name="enabled">
      &lt;Boolean>true&lt;/Boolean>
    &lt;/field>
    &lt;field name="startQuote">
      &lt;Character>‘&lt;/Character>
    &lt;/field>
    &lt;field name="endQuote">
      &lt;Character>’&lt;/Character>
    &lt;/field>
  &lt;/autoCorrectQuotes>
&lt;/entry></codeblock>
      <ph id="options-ph3">Example entry for <b>spell.check.options</b> option:
      </ph><codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;entry>
  &lt;String>spell.check.options&lt;/String>
  &lt;spellCheckOptions>
    &lt;field name="language">
      &lt;String>de_DE&lt;/String>
    &lt;/field>
  &lt;/spellCheckOptions>
&lt;/entry></codeblock></p>
    <!--custom term lists for spell checker-->
    <ol>
      <li id="options-spell-li1">Create a <i>term list</i> file (with a <filepath>.tdi</filepath>
        file extension). The name of the file must begin with a two letter prefix that indicates the
        language it should be attached to, followed by an underscore or hyphen, and then a
        descriptive name (for example, <filepath>en_US_myterms.tdi</filepath> for term list in the
        US version of the English language or <filepath>en_myterms.tdi</filepath> for a less
        specific English term list). For a list of language codes, see <xref
          href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes" format="html"
          scope="external"/>.</li>
      <li id="options-spell-li2">In the term list file (<filepath>.tdi</filepath> extension), add
        the terms you want to be included in your custom dictionary. If you need to specify
        forbidden terms, those words simply need to be preceded by an asterisk. Add one word per
        row, as in the following
        example:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini">     parabola
     asimptotic
     *hyperbola</codeblock></li>
      <li>Save the file (<filepath>.tdi</filepath>) to the <filepath>options/spell</filepath> folder
        that is located inside your <term>Oxygen Data Directory</term>
          (<codeph>oxygen.data.dir/options/spell</codeph>).</li>
      <li id="options-spell-li4">Restart the server for the spell checker to start using the new
        terms list.</li>
    </ol>
    <!--custom term lists for autocorrect-->
    <ol>
      <li id="options-autocorrect-li1">In <b>Oxygen XML Editor/Author</b>, go to <menucascade>
          <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Edit Modes</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>AutoCorrect</uicontrol>
        </menucascade>.</li>
      <li id="options-autocorrect-li2">Make whatever changes you require and click
          <uicontrol>Apply</uicontrol>. If you need help with any of the options in this preferences
        page, see <xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-editor/topics/autocorrect-preferences-page.html"
          format="html" scope="external"/>.</li>
      <li id="options-autocorrect-li3">Go to <menucascade>
          <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Editor</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Edit Modes</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>AutoCorrect</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Dictionaries</uicontrol>
        </menucascade> and note the location where the dictionaries are stored.</li>
      <li id="options-autocorrect-li4">Navigate to that location with a file explorer and look for a
        patch file (it should look like: <filepath>en_patch.xml</filepath>).</li>
      <li>Copy or move that patch file to the <filepath>options/autocorrect</filepath> folder that
        is located inside your <term>Oxygen Data Directory</term>
          (<codeph>oxygen.data.dir/options/autocorrect</codeph>).</li>
      <li id="options-autocorrect-li6">Restart the server for the <term>AutoCorrect</term> feature
        to start using the new terms list.</li>
    </ol>
  </body>
</topic>
