<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="reusables-installation">
  <title>Reusable Components in Installation</title>
  <body>
    <p id="p_e1k_bgk_54b">This topic contains reusable fragments for the installation topics. The reuse strategy is to
      ensure that key values can be edited and compared in one place. We reuse in big chunks as
      reusing highly granular pieces just makes things hard to edit without any real maintainability
      win. In some cases, content that fits in only one topic is still included here and conrefed
      into the topic to keep all the information, such as requirements, in one file for ease of
      editing.</p>
    <section id="installation_requirements_reusables">
      <title>Installation Requirements Reusables</title>
      <p id="p_f1k_bgk_54b">In this section, the reusable element is the <xmlelement>dd</xmlelement> element of each
          <xmlelement>dlentry</xmlelement>. Where the requirement is the same across platform, there
        is one entry per requirement that is used in all platforms. Where there are different
        requirements per platform, the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> of the reusable
          <xmlelement>dd</xmlelement> element is in the form <codeph>requirement.platform</codeph>
        (for instance, <codeph>memory.windows</codeph>).</p>
      <p id="p_g1k_bgk_54b">
        <dl id="dl_h1k_bgk_54b">
          <dlentry id="dlentry_i1k_bgk_54b">
            <dt>Operating System (Windows)</dt>
            <dd id="osrequirements.windows">
              <p id="p_j1k_bgk_54b">The product has been fully tested on Windows versions 10 and 11.
                The latest version of <ph keyref="product"/> might work on other versions of
                Windows, but they have not been officially tested.</p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_m1k_bgk_54b">
            <dt>Operating System (Mac)</dt>
            <dd id="osrequirements.macosx">
              <p id="p_n1k_bgk_54b">The product has been fully tested on macOS 13 (Ventura), 14
                (Sonoma), and 15 (Sequoia). The latest version of <ph keyref="product"/> might work
                on older versions of macOS, but they have not been officially tested.</p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_o1k_bgk_54b">
            <dt>Operating System (Linux)</dt>
            <dd id="osrequirements.linux">
              <p id="p_p1k_bgk_54b">The product has been fully tested on Ubuntu 22.04. The latest
                version of <ph keyref="product"/> might work on other flavors/versions of Linux, but
                they have not been officially tested.</p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_q1k_bgk_54b">
            <dt>CPU</dt>
            <dd id="CPU">
              <ul id="ul_lym_bqd_x4">
                <li id="li_r1k_bgk_54b">Minimum - Intel/AMD Dual-core class CPU, 2 GHz</li>
                <li id="li_s1k_bgk_54b">Recommended - Quad-core class processor</li>
              </ul>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_t1k_bgk_54b">
            <dt>CPU (Mac)</dt>
            <dd id="CPU.mac">
              <ul id="ul_lym_bqd_x5">
                <li id="li_u1k_bgk_54b">Minimum - Intel-based Dual-core Mac, 2 GHz</li>
                <li id="li_v1k_bgk_54b">Recommended - Apple M1 or newer</li>
              </ul>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_w1k_bgk_54b">
            <dt>Memory (Windows)</dt>
            <dd id="memory.windows">
              <ul id="ul_x1k_bgk_54b">
                <li id="li_y1k_bgk_54b">Minimum - <ph>3 GB of RAM</ph></li>
                <li id="li_z1k_bgk_54b">Recommended - <ph product="author developer editor json">8
                    GB of RAM</ph><ph product="svnClient">2 GB</ph></li>
              </ul>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_abk_bgk_54b">
            <dt>Memory (Windows Server)</dt>
            <dd id="memory.windowsnt">
              <ul id="ul_bbk_bgk_54b">
                <li id="li_cbk_bgk_54b">Minimum values per user - <ph>1 GB of RAM</ph></li>
                <li id="li_dbk_bgk_54b">Recommended values per concurrent user - <ph
                    product="author developer editor json">2 GB of RAM</ph><ph product="svnClient"
                    >512 MB of RAM</ph></li>
              </ul>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_ebk_bgk_54b">
            <dt>Memory (Mac)</dt>
            <dd id="memory.macosx">
              <ul id="ul_n4r_jlj_x4">
                <li id="li_fbk_bgk_54b">Minimum - <ph product="author developer editor json">4 GB of
                    RAM</ph>
                  <ph product="svnClient">1 GB of RAM </ph></li>
                <li id="li_gbk_bgk_54b">Recommended - <ph product="author developer editor json">8
                    GB of RAM</ph><ph product="svnClient">2 GB of RAM </ph></li>
              </ul>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_hbk_bgk_54b">
            <dt>Memory (Linux)</dt>
            <dd id="memory.linux">
              <ul id="ul_my4_plj_x4">
                <li id="li_ibk_bgk_54b">Minimum - <ph>3 GB of RAM</ph></li>
                <li id="li_jbk_bgk_54b">Recommended - <ph product="author developer editor json">8
                    GB of RAM</ph><ph product="svnClient">2 GB</ph></li>
              </ul>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_kbk_bgk_54b">
            <dt>Storage</dt>
            <dd id="storage">
              <ul id="ul_yym_bqd_x4">
                <li id="li_lbk_bgk_54b">Minimum - <ph product="author developer editor json">1 GB
                    free disk space</ph><ph product="svnClient">200 MB free disk space</ph></li>
                <li id="li_mbk_bgk_54b">Recommended - <ph product="author developer editor json">2
                    GB free disk space</ph><ph product="svnClient">500 MB free disk space</ph></li>
              </ul>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_nbk_bgk_54b">
            <dt>Java (Windows)</dt>
            <dd id="java.windows">
              <p id="p_pbk_bgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> only officially supports Java Virtual
                Machines with version <ph keyref="currentJavaVersion"/> from Oracle or Eclipse
                Adoptium. If you use the native Windows installer, <ph keyref="product"/> will be
                installed with its own copy of Java with the specific update version that has been
                thoroughly tested.<dl id="dl_qbk_bgk_54b">
                  <dlentry id="dlentry_rbk_bgk_54b">
                    <dt><u>All Platforms Package</u></dt>
                    <dd>
                      <p id="p_sbk_bgk_54b">If you use the all platforms package, your system must
                        have a compatible Java <ph keyref="currentJavaVersion"/> virtual machine
                        installed. To see the exact Java update version that is supported, go to
                          <xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com" format="html" scope="external"
                          >www.oxygenxml.com</xref>, navigate to the <uicontrol>Download</uicontrol>
                        page for the particular product you are installing, and click on the tab for
                        your particular platform.<note id="note_tbk_bgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/>
                          may work with other versions of Java, but since <ph keyref="product"/> has
                          only been thoroughly tested with specific versions, there is no guarantee
                          that it will be stable with any other Java version.</note></p>
                      <p id="p_ubk_bgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> uses the following rules to
                        determine which installed version of Java to use:<ol id="ol_f5f_4hs_x4">
                          <li id="li_vbk_bgk_54b">If you install using the native Windows installer,
                            which installs a version of Java as part of the <ph keyref="product"/>
                            installation, the version in the <filepath>jre</filepath> subdirectory
                            of the installation directory is used.</li>
                          <li id="li_wbk_bgk_54b">Otherwise, if the Windows environment variable
                              <codeph>JAVA_HOME</codeph> is set, <ph keyref="product"/> uses the
                            Java version pointed to by this variable.</li>
                          <li id="li_xbk_bgk_54b">Otherwise, the version of Java pointed to by your
                            PATH environment variable is used.</li>
                        </ol></p>
                      <p id="p_ybk_bgk_54b">If you run <ph keyref="product"/> using the batch file,
                          <ph product="editor"><filepath>oxygen.bat</filepath></ph><ph
                          product="author"><filepath>oxygenAuthor.bat</filepath></ph><ph
                          product="developer"><filepath>oxygenDeveloper.bat</filepath></ph><ph
                          product="json"><filepath>oxygenJSON.bat</filepath></ph><ph
                          product="svnClient"><filepath>syncroSVNClient.bat</filepath></ph>, you can
                        edit the batch file to specify a particular version to use.</p>
                    </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                </dl></p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_zbk_bgk_54b">
            <dt>Java (Eclipse)</dt>
            <dd id="java.eclipse">
              <p id="p_ljz_mpw_spb">Java <ph keyref="currentJavaVersion"/> from Oracle.</p><p id="p_bck_bgk_54b">On Eclipse, <ph
                  keyref="product"/> uses the same Java Virtual Machine as the copy of Eclipse it is
                running in.</p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_cck_bgk_54b">
            <dt>Java (Linux)</dt>
            <dd id="java.linux">
              <p id="p_eck_bgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> only officially supports Java Virtual
                Machines with version <ph keyref="currentJavaVersion"/> from Oracle or Eclipse
                Adoptium. If you use the Linux installer, <ph keyref="product"/> will be installed
                with its own copy of Java with the specific update version that has been thoroughly
                  tested.<dl id="dl_fck_bgk_54b">
                  <dlentry id="dlentry_gck_bgk_54b">
                    <dt><u>All Platforms Package</u></dt>
                    <dd>
                      <p id="p_hck_bgk_54b">If you use the all platforms package, your system must
                        have a compatible Java <ph keyref="currentJavaVersion"/> virtual machine
                        installed. To see the exact Java update version that is supported, go to
                          <xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com" format="html" scope="external"
                          >www.oxygenxml.com</xref>, navigate to the <uicontrol>Download</uicontrol>
                        page for the particular product you are installing, and click on the tab for
                        your particular platform.<note id="note_ick_bgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/>
                          may work with other versions of Java, but since <ph keyref="product"/> has
                          only been thoroughly tested with specific versions, there is no guarantee
                          that it will be stable with any other Java version.</note><note
                          type="attention" id="note_jck_bgk_54b">
                          <ph keyref="product"/> does not work with the <b>GNU libgcj</b> Java
                          Virtual Machine.</note></p>
                      <p id="p_kck_bgk_54b"><ph keyref="product"/> uses the following rules to
                        determine which installed version of Java to use:<ol id="ol_crx_3kk_y3b">
                          <li id="li_lck_bgk_54b">If you used the Linux installer, which installs a
                            version of Java as part of the <ph keyref="product"/> installation, the
                            version in the <filepath>jre</filepath> subdirectory of the installation
                            directory is used.</li>
                          <li id="li_mck_bgk_54b">Otherwise, if the Linux environment variable
                              <codeph>JAVA_HOME</codeph> is set, <ph keyref="product"/> uses the
                            Java version pointed to by this variable.</li>
                          <li id="li_nck_bgk_54b">Otherwise, the version of Java pointed to by your
                            PATH environment variable is used.</li>
                        </ol></p>
                      <p id="p_ock_bgk_54b">You can also change the version of the Java Virtual
                        Machine that runs <ph keyref="product"/> by editing the script file, <ph
                          product="editor"><filepath>oxygen.sh</filepath></ph><ph product="author"
                            ><filepath>oxygenAuthor.sh</filepath></ph><ph product="developer"
                            ><filepath>oxygenDeveloper.sh</filepath></ph><ph product="json"
                            ><filepath>oxygenJSON.sh</filepath></ph><ph product="svnClient"
                            ><filepath>syncroSVNClient.sh</filepath></ph>. </p>
                    </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                </dl></p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
    </section>
    <!--Request for floating license spit or combine-->
    <p id="p_qck_bgk_54b"
      product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse webauthor waCustom license-server"
        ><ph id="note-split-combine-licenses">A license server can only manage one license key. If
        you have multiple license keys for the same version of <uicontrol>Oxygen XML
          Editor/Author/Developer</uicontrol> and you want to have all of them managed by the same
        server, or if you have a multiple-user floating license and you want to split it between two
        or more license servers, <xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/contact.html" format="html"
          scope="external">contact the Oxygen support team</xref> and ask for a new license
        key.</ph></p>
    <note id="note_register-floating-multiple"
      product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">For information
      about deploying and registering floating licenses for multiple users, see <xref
        href="../../topics/register-floating-license-multiple-users.dita"/>.</note>
    <!--Install Add ons-->
    <p id="p_installing_add_ons" product="author developer editor json">To install an add-on that is
      hosted on a remote update site, follow these steps:<ol id="ol_rck_bgk_54b">
        <li id="li_sck_bgk_54b">Go to <menucascade>
            <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Install new add-ons</uicontrol>
          </menucascade>.</li>
        <li id="li_tck_bgk_54b">In the displayed dialog box, enter or paste the update site that
          hosts the add-on in the <uicontrol>Show add-ons from</uicontrol> field (or select it from
          the drop-down menu, if applicable). The default add-ons are hosted on
            <uicontrol>https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Addons/default/updateSite.xml</uicontrol>.
          If you want to see a list of all the default and sample add-ons that are available on the
            <term>Oxygen</term> remote update sites, choose <uicontrol>ALL AVAILABLE
            SITES</uicontrol> from the drop-down menu. The add-ons list contains the name, status,
          update version, <ph keyref="product"/> version, and the type of the add-on (either
            <b>framework</b>, or <b>plugin</b>). A short description of each add-on is presented
          under the add-ons list.<note id="note_uck_bgk_54b">To see all the versions of the add-ons,
            deselect <uicontrol>Show only compatible add-ons</uicontrol> and <uicontrol>Show only
              the latest version of the add-ons</uicontrol>. Incompatible add-ons are shown only to
            acknowledge their presence on the remote update site, but you cannot install an
            incompatible add-on.</note></li>
        <li id="li_vck_bgk_54b">Choose the add-ons you want to install, click the
            <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol> button, then follow the on-screen instructions.<note
            id="note_wck_bgk_54b">Accepting the license agreement of the add-on is a mandatory step
            in the installation process.</note><note id="note_ww5_zhz_bdc" type="danger">Installing
            from update sites other than the official <b>Oxygen</b> sites may cause security risks.
            Please verify that all your installed third-party add-ons come from companies or
            individuals that you have verified and that you implicitly trust. As a way to help with
            identifying possible add-on security problems, <ph keyref="product"/> issues warnings
            for unsigned plugins.</note><note id="note_xck_bgk_54b">All add-ons are installed in the
              <filepath>extensions</filepath> directory inside the <ph keyref="product"/>
            <xref href="../../topics/preferences.dita#preferences/preferences-directory-location"
              >preferences directory</xref>.</note></li>
      </ol><note id="note_psj_dfw_ssb" type="tip">As an alternate approach, you can add an
          <uicontrol>Install</uicontrol> button to a web page that links to a URL that has the
        syntax <codeph>https://host/path/to/updateSite.xml?oxygenAddonId=addOnIDValue</codeph> and
        drop the button into the application's main editing area.</note></p>
  </body>
</topic>
