<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="reusable-webhelp-customizing">
  <title>WebHelp Customizing Reusables</title>
  <body>
    <!--The following reusables are for topics where you have to edit the 'createMainFiles.xsl' file, with paths for DITA and DocBook-->
    <p><!--ph for Step--><ph id="edit-xsl-file-ph">Edit the following XSL file for DITA or DocBook
        WebHelp systems:</ph></p>
    <p><!--ph for DITA--><ph id="DITA-edit-xsl-ph">For DITA WebHelp systems, edit the following
        file: <filepath><term keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"
          ></term>\plugins\com.oxygenxml.webhelp.classic\xsl\createMainFiles.xsl</filepath>.</ph></p>
    <p><!--ph for DocBook--><ph id="DocBook-edit-xsl-ph">For DocBook WebHelp system, edit the
        following file: <filepath><term conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
          />\frameworks\docbook\xsl\com.oxygenxml.webhelp.classic\xsl\createMainFiles.xsl</filepath>.</ph></p>
    <p><!--These reusables for for the default image folders for DITA and DocBook--></p>
    <p><!--ph for Step--><ph id="image-files-folder-ph">It is recommended that you store the image
        files in the same directory as the default icons.</ph></p>
    <p><!--ph for DITA--><ph id="DITA-image-path-ph">For DITA transformations: <filepath><term
            keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"
          ></term>\plugins\com.oxygenxml.webhelp.classic\oxygen-webhelp\resources\img\</filepath>.</ph></p>
    <p><!--ph for DocBook--><ph id="DocBook-image-path-ph">For DocBook transformations:
            <filepath><term conkeyref="reusables-user-guide/oxy-install-dir"
          />\frameworks\docbook\xsl\com.oxygenxml.webhelp.classic\oxygen-webhelp\resources\img\</filepath>.</ph></p>
    <p><!--These reusables are for parameters in WebHelp transformations that specify a custom CSS (DITA and DocBook)--></p>
    <p><!--ph for Step--><ph id="transform-parameters-tab-ph">Edit the WebHelp transformation
        scenario and open the <uicontrol>Parameters</uicontrol> tab.</ph></p>
    <p><!--ph for DITA--><ph id="DITA-parameters-ph">For a DITA transformation, set the
          <codeph>args.css</codeph> parameter to the path of your custom CSS file. Also, set the
          <codeph>args.copycss</codeph> parameter to <codeph>yes</codeph> to automatically copy your
        custom CSS in the output folder when the transformation scenario is processed.</ph></p>
    <p><!--ph for DocBook--><ph id="DocBook-parameters-ph">For a DocBook transformation, set the
          <codeph>html.stylesheet</codeph> parameter to the path of your custom CSS file.</ph></p>
    <!--WebHelp Responsive HTML Page Template Components-->
    <p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry id="child-links">
          <dt>Child Links (<codeph>webhelp_child_links</codeph>)</dt>
          <dd>For all topics with subtopics (child topics), this component generates a list of links
            to each child topic. To generate this component, the
              <codeph>webhelp_child_links</codeph> element must be specified in the template file as
            in the following
            example:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_child_links 
     xmlns:whc="http://www.oxygenxml.com/webhelp/components"/></codeblock></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="expand-collapse-sections">
          <dt>Expand/Collapse Sections (<codeph>webhelp_expand_collapse_sections</codeph>)</dt>
          <dd>This component is used to generate an icon that expands or collapses sections listed
            in the side table of contents within a topic. To generate this component, the
              <codeph>webhelp_expand_collapse_sections</codeph> element must be specified in the
            template file as in the following
              example:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_expand_collapse_sections 
     xmlns:whc="http://www.oxygenxml.com/webhelp/components"/></codeblock><p>In
              the output, you will find an element with the class:
                <codeph>wh_hide_subtopics</codeph>.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="include-html-files">
          <dt>Include HTML Files (<codeph>include_html</codeph>)</dt>
          <dd>This component can be used to include custom HTML files. To generate this component,
            the <codeph>include_html</codeph> element must be specified in the template file as in
            the following
              example:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:include_html href="${wh.param}"/></codeblock><p>Where
              the <codeph>href</codeph> can have the following values:</p><ul id="ul_tdb_t1s_lv">
              <li><b>any URL</b> - In this case, the file to be included is specified as an
                URL.</li>
              <li><b>{$oxygen-webhelp-template-dir}/file_to_include.html</b> - To include resources
                that are part of the template.</li>
              <li><b>${webhelp.param}</b> - To include a resource whose path is specified through a
                WebHelp transformation scenario parameter. The value of this parameter can be a
                simple HTML fragment, in which case it will be copied to the output.</li>
            </ul></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="index-terms-link">
          <dt>Index Terms Link (<codeph>webhelp_indexterms_link</codeph>)</dt>
          <dd>This component can be used to generate a link to the index terms page
              (<codeph>indexterms.html</codeph>). If the published documentation does not contains
            any index terms, then the link will not be generated. To generate this component, the
              <codeph>webhelp_indexterms_link</codeph> element must be specified in the template
            file as in the following
              example:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_indexterms_link 
     xmlns:whc="http://www.oxygenxml.com/webhelp/components"/></codeblock><p>In
              the output, you will find an element with the class:
                <codeph>wh_indexterms_link</codeph>. This element will contain a link to the
                <codeph>indexterms.html</codeph> page.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="link-to-skins">
          <dt>Link to Skins Resources (<codeph>webhelp_skin_resources</codeph>)</dt>
          <dd>This component can be used to add a link to resources for the current WebHelp skin
            (such as the CSS file). To generate this component, the
              <codeph>webhelp_skin_resources</codeph> element must be specified in the template file
            as in the following
              example:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_skin_resources/></codeblock><p>In
              the output, you will find a link to the skin resources.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="main-page-menu">
          <dt>Main Page Menu (<codeph>webhelp_topics_menu</codeph>)</dt>
          <dd>This component generates a menu with all the documentation topics. To generate this
            component, the <codeph>webhelp_topics_menu</codeph> element must be specified in the
            template file as in the following
              example:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_topics_menu 
     xmlns:whc="http://www.oxygenxml.com/webhelp/components"/></codeblock><p>In
              the output, you will find an element with the class:
              <codeph>wh_topics_menu</codeph>.</p><p>You can control the maximum level of topics
              that will be included in the menu using the <codeph>webhelp.top.menu.depth</codeph>
              transformation parameter (in the <uicontrol>Parameters</uicontrol> tab of the
              transformation scenario).</p><p>For information about customizing the menu, see <xref
                href="../../topics/whr-customize-menu.dita#whr-customize-menu"/>.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="main-page-toc">
          <dt>Main Page Table of Contents (<codeph>webhelp_main_page_toc</codeph>)</dt>
          <dd>This component generates a simplified Table of Contents. It is simplified because it
            contains only two levels from the documentation hierarchy. To generate this component,
            the <codeph>webhelp_main_page_toc</codeph> element must be specified in the template
            file as in the following
              example:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_main_page_toc 
     xmlns:whc="http://www.oxygenxml.com/webhelp/components"/></codeblock><p>In
              the output, you will find an element with the class:
              <codeph>wh_main_page_toc</codeph>.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="main-page-topic-tiles">
          <dt>Main Page Topic Tiles (<codeph>webhelp_tiles</codeph>)</dt>
          <dd>This component generates the tiles section in the main page. This section will contain
            a tile for each root topic of the published documentation. Each topic tile has three
            sections that corresponds to the topic title, short description, and image. To generate
            this component, the <codeph>webhelp_tiles</codeph> element must be specified in the
            template file as in the following
              example:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_tiles 
     xmlns:whc="http://www.oxygenxml.com/webhelp/components"/></codeblock><p>In
              the output, you will find an element with the class:
              <codeph>wh_tiles</codeph>.</p><p>If you want to control the HTML structure that is
              generated for a WebHelp tile you can also specify the template for a tile by using the
                <codeph>whc:webhelp_tile</codeph> component, as in the following
              example:</p><codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_tile class="col-md-4">                    
  &lt;!-- Place holder for tile's image -->
  &lt;whc:webhelp_tile_image/>                        
                    
  &lt;div class="wh_tile_text">
    &lt;!-- Place holder for tile's title -->
     &lt;whc:webhelp_tile_title/>
                       
     &lt;!-- Place holder for tile's shordesc -->
     &lt;whc:webhelp_tile_shortdesc/>
  &lt;/div>
&lt;/whc:webhelp_tile></codeblock><p>For
              information about customizing the tiles, see <xref
                href="../../topics/whr-configure-tiles.dita#whr-configure-tiles"/>.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="navigation-links">
          <dt>Navigation Links (<codeph>webhelp_navigation_links</codeph>)</dt>
          <dd>This component generates navigation links to the next and previous topics. To generate
            this component, the <codeph>webhelp_navigation_links</codeph> element must be specified
            in the template file as in the following
              example:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_navigation_links 
     xmlns:whc="http://www.oxygenxml.com/webhelp/components"/></codeblock><p>In
              the output, you will find an element with the class:
                <codeph>wh_navigation_links</codeph>. This element will contain the links to the
              next and previous topics.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="print-link">
          <dt>Print Link (<codeph>webhelp_print_link</codeph>)</dt>
          <dd>This component is used to generate a print icon that opens the print dialog box for
            your particular browser. To generate this component, the
              <codeph>webhelp_print_link</codeph> element must be specified in the template file as
            in the following
              example:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_print_link 
     xmlns:whc="http://www.oxygenxml.com/webhelp/components"/></codeblock><p>In
              the output, you will find an element with the class:
              <codeph>wh_print_link</codeph>.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="publication-logo">
          <dt>Publication Logo (<codeph>webhelp_logo</codeph>)</dt>
          <dd>This component generates a logo image in the output. To generate this component, the
              <codeph>webhelp_logo</codeph> element must be specified in the template file as in the
            following
              example:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_logo 
     xmlns:whc="http://www.oxygenxml.com/webhelp/components"/></codeblock><p>In
              addition, you must also specify the path of the logo image in the
                <codeph>webhelp.logo.image</codeph> transformation parameter (in the
                <uicontrol>Parameters</uicontrol> tab in the transformation scenario). You can set
              the <codeph>webhelp.logo.image.target.url</codeph> parameter to generate a link to a
              URL when you click the logo image.</p><p>In the output, you will find an element with
              the class: <codeph>wh_logo</codeph>.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="publication-title">
          <dt>Publication Title (<codeph>webhelp_publication_title</codeph>)</dt>
          <dd>This component generates the publication title in the output. To generate this
            component, the <codeph>webhelp_publication_title</codeph> element must be specified in
            the template file as in the following
              example:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_publication_title 
     xmlns:whc="http://www.oxygenxml.com/webhelp/components"/></codeblock><p>In
              the output, you will find an element with the class:
                <codeph>wh_publication_title</codeph>.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="related-links">
          <dt>Related Links (<codeph>webhelp_related_links</codeph>)</dt>
          <dd>For all topics that contain related links, this component generates a list of related
            links that will appear in the output. To generate this component, the
              <codeph>webhelp_related_links</codeph> element must be specified in the template file
            as in the following
            example:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_related_links 
     xmlns:whc="http://www.oxygenxml.com/webhelp/components"/></codeblock></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="search-input">
          <dt>Search Input (<codeph>webhelp_search_input</codeph>)</dt>
          <dd>This component is used to generate the input widget associated with search function in
            the output. To generate this component, the <codeph>webhelp_search_input</codeph>
            element must be specified in the template file as in the following
              example:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_search_input 
     xmlns:whc="http://www.oxygenxml.com/webhelp/components"/></codeblock><p>In
              the output, you will find an element with the class:
              <codeph>wh_search_input</codeph>.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="search-results-2">
          <dt>Search Results (<codeph>webhelp_search_results</codeph>)</dt>
          <dd>This component is used to generate a placeholder to signal where the search results
            will be presented in the output. To generate this component, the
              <codeph>webhelp_search_results</codeph> element must be specified in the template file
            as in the following
              example:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_search_results 
     xmlns:whc="http://www.oxygenxml.com/webhelp/components"/></codeblock><p>In
              the output, you will find an element with the class:
                <codeph>wh_search_results</codeph>.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="topic-breadcrumb">
          <dt>Topic Breadcrumb (<codeph>webhelp_breadcrumb</codeph>)</dt>
          <dd>This component generates a breadcrumb that displays the path of the current topic. To
            generate this component, the <codeph>webhelp_breadcrumb</codeph> element must be
            specified in the template file as in the following
              example:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_breadcrumb 
     xmlns:whc="http://www.oxygenxml.com/webhelp/components"/></codeblock><p>In
              the output, you will find an element with the class: <codeph>wh_breadcrumb</codeph>.
              This element will contain a list with items that correspond to the topics in the path.
              The first item in the list has a link to the main page with the <codeph>home</codeph>
              class. The last item in the list corresponds to the current topic and has the
                <codeph>active</codeph> class set.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="topic-content">
          <dt>Topic Content (<codeph>webhelp_topic_content</codeph>)</dt>
          <dd>This component generates the content of a topic and it represent the content of the
            HTML files as they are produced by the DITA-OT processor. To generate this component,
            the <codeph>webhelp_topic_content</codeph> element must be specified in the template
            file as in the following
              example:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_topic_content 
     xmlns:whc="http://www.oxygenxml.com/webhelp/components"/></codeblock><p>In
              the output, you will find an element with the class:
              <codeph>wh_topic_content</codeph>.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="topic-feedback">
          <dt>Topic Feedback (<codeph>webhelp_feedback</codeph>)</dt>
          <dd>This component generates a placeholder for where the comments section will be
            presented. To generate this component, the <codeph>webhelp_feedback</codeph> element
            must be specified in the template file as in the following
            example:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_feedback 
     xmlns:whc="http://www.oxygenxml.com/webhelp/components"/></codeblock></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="topic-side-toc">
          <dt>Topic Side TOC (<codeph>webhelp_side_toc</codeph>)</dt>
          <dd>This component generates a mini table of contents for the current topic. It will
            contain links to the children of current topic, its siblings, and all of its ancestors.
            To generate this component, the <codeph>webhelp_side_toc</codeph> element must be
            specified in the template file as in the following
              example:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;whc:webhelp_side_toc 
     xmlns:whc="http://www.oxygenxml.com/webhelp/components"/></codeblock><p>In
              the output, you will find an element with the class: <codeph>wh_side_toc</codeph>.
              This element will contain links to the topics that are close to the current
            topic.</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
    <p><ph id="wh_publication_title">Publication Title</ph></p>
    <p><ph id="wh_publication_logo">Publication Logo</ph></p>
    <p><ph id="wh_search_input">Search Input</ph></p>
    <p><ph id="wh_search_results">Search Results</ph></p>
    <p><ph id="wh_print_link">Print Link</ph></p>
    <p><ph id="wh_menu">Main Page Menu</ph></p>
    <p><ph id="wh_main_page_topic_tiles">Main Page Topic Tiles</ph></p>
    <p><ph id="wh_main_page_toc">Main Page Table of Contents</ph></p>
    <p><ph id="wh_index_terms_link">Index Terms Link</ph></p>
    <p><ph id="wh_company_logo">Company Logo</ph></p>
    <p><ph id="wh_topic_breadcrumb">Topic Breadcrumb</ph></p>
    <p><ph id="wh_navigation_links">Navigational Links</ph></p>
    <p><ph id="wh_topic_content">Topic Content</ph></p>
    <p><ph id="wh_topic_side_toc">Topic Side TOC</ph></p>
    <p><ph id="wh_topic_feedback">Topic Feedback</ph></p>
    <p><ph id="wh_child_links">Child Links</ph></p>
    <p><ph id="wh_related_links">Related Links</ph></p>
    <p><ph id="wh_skin_resources">Link to Skin Resources</ph></p>
  </body>
</topic>
