<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="reusables-configuring-oxygen">
  <title>Reusable Components in Configuring <ph keyref="product"/> Chapter</title>
  <body>
    <p>
      <ul id="preferences-directory-locations-ul">
        <li><b>Windows (Vista, 7, 8, 10)</b> - <filepath id="global-options-folder-location"
            product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
            >[user_home_directory]\AppData\Roaming\com.oxygenxml</filepath><filepath
            product="svnClient"
          >[user_home_directory]\AppData\Roaming\com.syncrosvnclient</filepath></li>
        <li><b>Windows XP</b> - <filepath
            product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
            >[user_home_directory]\Application Data\com.oxygenxml</filepath><filepath
            product="svnClient">[user_home_directory]\Application
            Data\com.syncrosvnclient</filepath></li>
        <li><b>Mac OS X</b> - <filepath
            product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
            >[user_home_directory]/Library/Preferences/com.oxygenxml</filepath><filepath
            product="svnClient"
            >[user_home_directory]/Library/Preferences/com.syncrosvnclient</filepath></li>
        <li><b>Linux/Unix</b> - <filepath
            product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
            >[user_home_directory]/.com.oxygenxml</filepath><filepath product="svnClient"
            >[user_home_directory]/.com.syncrosvnclient</filepath></li>
      </ul>
      <note id="restart-app-note">You must restart the application for your changes to be
        applied.</note>
    </p>
    <section product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
      id="components_used_in_oxygen_only_products">
      <title>Components used in Oxygen only products</title>
      <!--XML instance generator options-->
      <p>
        <dl>
          <dlentry id="generate-optional-elements">
            <dt><uicontrol>Generate optional elements</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>When selected, all elements are generated, including the optional ones (having the
                <codeph>minOccurs</codeph> attribute set to 0 in the schema).</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="generate-optional-attributes">
            <dt><uicontrol>Generate optional attributes</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>When selected, all attributes are generated, including the optional ones (having the
                <codeph>use</codeph> attribute set to <codeph>optional</codeph> in the schema).</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="values-elements-attr">
            <dt><uicontrol>Values of elements and attributes</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>Controls the content of generated attribute and element values. The following
              choices are available: <ul>
                <li><uicontrol>None</uicontrol> - No content is inserted.</li>
                <li><uicontrol>Default</uicontrol> - Inserts a default value depending of data type
                  descriptor of the particular element or attribute. The default value can be either
                  the data type name or an incremental name of the attribute or element (according
                  to the global option from the <uicontrol>Sample XML Files Generator</uicontrol>
                  preferences page). Note that type restrictions are ignored when this option is
                  selected. For example, if an element is of a type that restricts an
                    <uicontrol>xs:string</uicontrol> with the <uicontrol>xs:maxLength</uicontrol>
                  facet to allow strings with a maximum length of 3, the XML instance generator tool
                  may generate string element values longer than 3 characters.</li>
                <li><uicontrol>Random</uicontrol> - Inserts a random value depending of data type
                  descriptor of the particular element or attribute.<note type="important">If all of
                    the following are true, the <uicontrol>Generate Sample XML Files</uicontrol>
                    tool outputs invalid values:<ul>
                      <li>At least one of the restrictions is a <codeph>regexp</codeph>.</li>
                      <li>The value generated after applying the regexp does not match the
                        restrictions imposed by one of the facets.</li>
                    </ul></note></li>
              </ul></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="preferred-number-reps">
            <dt><uicontrol>Preferred number of repetitions</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>Allows you to set the preferred number of repeating elements related to
                <codeph>minOccurs</codeph> and <codeph>maxOccurs</codeph> facets defined in the XML
              Schema. <ul>
                <li>If the value set here is between <codeph>minOccurs</codeph> and
                    <codeph>maxOccurs</codeph>, then that value is used.</li>
                <li>If the value set here is less than <codeph>minOccurs</codeph>, then the
                    <codeph>minOccurs</codeph> value is used.</li>
                <li>If the value set here is greater than <codeph>maxOccurs</codeph>, then
                    <codeph>maxOccurs</codeph> is used.</li>
              </ul></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="max-recursion-level">
            <dt><uicontrol>Maximum recursion level</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>If a recursion is found, this option controls the maximum allowed depth of the same
              element.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="type-alt-strategy">
            <dt><uicontrol>Type alternative strategy</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>Used for the <codeph>xs:alternative</codeph> element from XML Schema 1.1. The
              possible strategies are:<ul>
                <li><uicontrol>First</uicontrol> - The first valid alternative type is always
                  used.</li>
                <li><uicontrol>Random</uicontrol> - A random alternative type is used.</li>
              </ul></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="choice-strategy">
            <dt><uicontrol>Choice strategy</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>Used for <codeph>xs:choice</codeph> or <codeph>substitutionGroup</codeph> elements.
              The possible strategies are:<ul>
                <li><uicontrol>First</uicontrol> - The first branch of <codeph>xs:choice</codeph> or
                  the head element of <codeph>substitutionGroup</codeph> is always used.</li>
                <li><uicontrol>Random</uicontrol> - A random branch of <codeph>xs:choice</codeph> or
                  a substitute element or the head element of a <codeph>substitutionGroup</codeph>
                  is used.</li>
              </ul></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="generate-other-options">
            <dt><uicontrol>Generate the other options as comments</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>If selected, generates the other possible choices or substitutions (for
                <codeph>xs:choice</codeph> and <codeph>substitutionGroup</codeph>). These
              alternatives are generated inside comments groups so you can uncomment and use them
              later. Use this option with care (for example, on a restricted namespace and element)
              as it may generate large result files.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="use-incremental-names">
            <dt><uicontrol>Use incremental attribute / element names as default</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>If selected, the value of an element or attribute starts with the name of that
              element or attribute. For example, for an <codeph>a</codeph> element the generated
              values are: <codeph>a1</codeph>, <codeph>a2</codeph>, <codeph>a3</codeph>, and so on.
              If not selected, the value is the name of the type of that element / attribute (for
              example: <codeph>string</codeph>, <codeph>decimal</codeph>, etc.)</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="maximim-length">
            <dt><uicontrol>Maximum length</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>The maximum length of string values generated for elements and attributes.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="discard-optional-elements">
            <dt><uicontrol>Discard optional elements after nested level</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>The optional elements that exceed the specified nested level are discarded. This
              option is useful for limiting deeply nested element definitions that can quickly
              result in very large XML documents.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
      <!--Shortcut keys-->
      <ul id="shortcut_modifiers">
        <li><codeph>M1</codeph> represents the <uicontrol><shortcut>Command</shortcut></uicontrol>
          key on MacOS X, and the <uicontrol><shortcut>Ctrl</shortcut></uicontrol> key on other
          platforms.</li>
        <li><codeph>M2</codeph> represents the <uicontrol><shortcut>Shift</shortcut></uicontrol>
          key.</li>
        <li><codeph>M3</codeph> represents the <uicontrol><shortcut>Option</shortcut></uicontrol>
          key on MacOS X, and the <uicontrol><shortcut>Alt</shortcut></uicontrol> key on other
          platforms.</li>
        <li><codeph>M4</codeph> represents the <uicontrol><shortcut>Ctrl</shortcut></uicontrol> key
          on MacOS X, and is undefined on other platforms.</li>
      </ul>
      <!--"New" action options-->
      <ul>
        <li id="ct_content"><uicontrol>Content</uicontrol> - Text box where you define the content
          that is used when the code template is inserted.</li>
        <li id="ct_shortcut_key"><uicontrol>Shortcut key</uicontrol> - Allows you to configure a
          shortcut key that can be used to insert the code template. The <codeph>+</codeph>
          character separates keys. If the <uicontrol>Enable platform-independent shortcut
            keys</uicontrol> checkbox is selected, the shortcut is platform-independent and the
          following modifiers are used:<ul
            conkeyref="reusables-configuring-oxygen/shortcut_modifiers">
            <li/>
            <li/>
          </ul></li>
        <li id="ct_desc"><uicontrol>Description</uicontrol> - The description of the code template
          that will appear in the <uicontrol>Code Templates</uicontrol> preferences page and in the
          tooltip message when selecting it from the <xref
            keyref="glossentry_content-completion-assistant"><term>Content Completion
              Assistant</term></xref>. HTML markup can be used for better rendering.</li>
      </ul>
      <!--DITA preferences-->
      <p>
        <dl>
          <dlentry id="show-console-output-dlentry">
            <dt><uicontrol>Show console output</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>Allows you to specify when to display the console output log in the message panel at
              the bottom of the editor. The following options are available:<ul>
                <li><uicontrol>When build fails</uicontrol> - Displays the console output log only
                  if the build fails.</li>
                <li><uicontrol>Always</uicontrol> - Displays the console output log, regardless of
                  whether or not the build fails.</li>
              </ul></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <!--Doc Type Association tabs-->
          <dlentry id="name">
            <dt><uicontrol>Name</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>Specifies the name of the action. This name is displayed as a tooltip or as a menu
                item.<note type="tip">You can use the <xref
                  href="../../topics/editor-variables.dita#editor-variables/localization"
                    ><b>${i18n('key')}</b> editor variable</xref> to allow for multiple translations
                of the name.</note></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="menu-access-key">
            <dt><uicontrol>Menu access key</uicontrol></dt>
            <dd>In Windows, you can access menus by holding down
                <uicontrol><shortcut>Alt</shortcut></uicontrol> and pressing the keyboard key that
              corresponds to the <i>Letter</i> that is underlined in the name of the menu. Then,
              while still holding down <uicontrol><shortcut>Alt</shortcut></uicontrol>, you can
              select submenus and menu action the same way by pressing subsequent corresponding
              keys. You can use this option to specify the <i>Letter</i> in the name of the action
              that can be used to access the action.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
      <!--CSS Validator-->
      <p product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"><ph
          id="CSS3-with-oxygen-extensions-profile"><ph
            product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse">The <uicontrol>CSS 3 with Oxygen
              extensions</uicontrol> profile includes all the CSS 3 standard properties plus the
              <xref href="../../topics/dg-oXygen-css-extensions.dita#dg-oXygen-css-extensions"
              format="dita">CSS extensions specific for Oxygen</xref> that can be used in <xref
              href="../../topics/author-editor.dita#author-editor" format="dita">Author
              mode</xref>.</ph><ph product="developer developerEclipse">The <uicontrol>CSS 3 with
              Oxygen extensions</uicontrol> profile includes all the CSS 3 standard properties and
            the CSS extensions specific for Oxygen.</ph> That means all Oxygen specific extensions
          are accepted in a CSS stylesheet by <xref
            href="../../topics/validating-css-stylesheets.dita#validating-css-stylesheets"
            format="dita">the built-in CSS validator</xref> when this profile is selected.</ph></p>
      <!--Download links for databases-->
      <p><ph id="ibm_db2_driver_download">Go to the <xref
            href="http://www-306.ibm.com/software/data/db2/express/download.html" scope="external"
            format="html">IBM website</xref> and in the <i>DB2 Clients and Development Tools</i>
          category select the <i>DB2 Driver for JDBC and SQLJ</i> download link. Fill out the
          download form and download the zip file. Unzip the zip file and use the
            <filepath>db2jcc.jar</filepath> and <filepath>db2jcc_license_cu.jar</filepath> files in
            <ph keyref="product"/> for <xref href="../../topics/configure-db2-datasource.dita"
            >configuring a DB2 data source</xref>.</ph></p>
    </section>
    <!--Diff Options-->
    <p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry id="algorithm-strength">
          <dt><uicontrol>Algorithm strength</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Controls the amount of resources allocated to the application to perform the
            comparison. The algorithm stops searching more differences when reaches the maximum
            allowed resources. A dialog box is displayed when this limit is reached and partial
            results are displayed. Four settings are available: <uicontrol>Low</uicontrol>,
              <uicontrol>Medium</uicontrol> (default), <uicontrol>High</uicontrol> and
              <uicontrol>Very High</uicontrol>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="show-pseudo-conflicts">
          <dt><uicontrol>Show pseudo conflicts</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Specifies whether or not the file comparison displays pseudo-conflicts. A
            pseudo-conflict occurs when two users make the same change (for example, when they both
            add or remove the same line of code).</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="ignore-whitespaces">
          <dt><uicontrol>Ignore Whitespaces</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected, before performing the comparison, the application normalizes the content
            (collapses any sequence of whitespace characters into a single space) and trims its
            leading and trailing whitespaces.<note>If the <uicontrol>Ignore Whitespaces</uicontrol>
              checkbox is selected, comparing the <codeph>a b</codeph> sequence with <codeph>a
                b</codeph>, <ph keyref="product"/> finds no differences, because after
              normalization, all whitespaces from the first sequence are collapsed into a single
              space character. However, when comparing <codeph>a b</codeph> with <codeph>ab</codeph>
              (no whitespace between <codeph>a</codeph> and <codeph>b</codeph>), <ph
                keyref="product"/> signals a difference.</note></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="xml-diff-section">
          <dt><uicontrol>XML Diff</uicontrol> section</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>
              <dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Ignore</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>Allows you to specify the types of XML nodes that will be ignored in the file
                    comparison for the <uicontrol>XML Fast</uicontrol> and <uicontrol>XML
                      Accurate</uicontrol> algorithms.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Ignore nodes by XPath</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>If selected, you can enter an <xref
                      href="../../topics/running-xpath-expressions.dita#running-xpath-expressions"
                      product="author developer editor">XPath expression</xref><ph
                      product="svnClient">XPath expression</ph> to ignore certain nodes from the
                    comparison. It will be processed as XPath version 2.0. The XPath expression
                    specified in this option is used as the default ignore instructions <b>only</b>
                    when the application is started. If you enter an XPath expression in the similar
                    option on the <uicontrol>Diff Files</uicontrol> toolbar, that expression will be
                    used instead.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Merge adjacent differences</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>If selected, the application considers two adjacent differences as one when
                    the differences are painted in the side-by-side editors. If not selected, every
                    difference is represented separately.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Mark end tags as different for modified elements</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>If selected, end tags of modified elements are also presented as differences.
                    Otherwise, only the start tags are presented as differences.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt><uicontrol>Ignore expansion state for empty elements</uicontrol></dt>
                  <dd>If selected, empty elements in both expansion states are considered matched
                    (that is <codeph>&lt;element/&gt;</codeph> and
                      <codeph>&lt;element&gt;&lt;/element&gt;</codeph> are considered equal).</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
    <!--Misc-->
    <p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry id="enable-mouse-wheel-zoom">
          <dt><uicontrol>Enable mouse-wheel zooming</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected, you can use <uicontrol><shortcut>Ctrl + MouseWheelForward (Command +
                MouseWheelForward on OS X)</shortcut></uicontrol> to increase the editor font (zoom
            in) or <uicontrol><shortcut>Ctrl + MouseWheelBackwards (Command + MouseWheelBackwards on
                OS X)</shortcut></uicontrol> to decrease the editor font (zoom out). It is enabled
            by default on Windows and Linux, while it is disabled by default on Mac OS X, due to the
            way inertia affects the mouse wheel on this operating system.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
