<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="reusables-editing-modes">
  <title>Reusable Components in Editing Modes</title>
  <body>
    <!--Attribute View reusables-->
    <p id="attribute-view-intro">The <uicontrol>Attributes</uicontrol> view presents all the
      attributes of the current element determined by the schema of the document. </p>
    <p id="attribute-view-rendering">The attributes are rendered differently depending on their state:<ul>
        <li>The names of the attributes with a specified value are rendered with a bold font, and
          their value with a plain font.<note>The names of the attributes with an empty string value
            are also rendered bold. </note></li>
        <li>Default values are rendered with a plain font, painted gray.</li>
        <li>Empty values display the text "[empty]", painted gray.</li>
        <li>Invalid attributes and values are painted red.</li>
      </ul>Double-click a cell in the <uicontrol>Value</uicontrol> column to edit the value of the
      corresponding attribute. If the possible values of the attribute are specified as
        <codeph>list</codeph> in the schema of the edited document, the <uicontrol>Value</uicontrol>
      column acts as a combo box that allows you to insert the values in the document. </p>
    <p id="attribute-view-sorting">You can sort the attributes table by clicking the
        <uicontrol>Attribute</uicontrol> column header. The table contents can be sorted as follows: <ul>
        <li>By attribute name in ascending order.</li>
        <li>By attribute name in descending order.</li>
        <li>Custom order, where the used attributes are displayed at the beginning of the table
          sorted in ascending order, followed by the rest of the allowed elements sorted in
          ascending order.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <!--Contextual menu actions of the Attributes View-->
    <dl>
      <dlentry id="set-empty-value-dlentry">
        <dt><uicontrol>Set empty value</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>Specifies the current attribute value as empty.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry id="remove-dlentry">
        <dt><uicontrol>Remove</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>Removes the attribute (action available only if the attribute is specified). You can
          invoke this action by pressing the <uicontrol><shortcut>(Delete)</shortcut></uicontrol> or
              <uicontrol><shortcut>(Backspace)</shortcut></uicontrol> keys.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry id="copy_dlentry">
        <dt><uicontrol>Copy</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>Copies the <codeph>attrName="attrValue"</codeph> pair to the clipboard. The
            <codeph>attrValue</codeph> can be: <ul>
            <li>The value of the attribute.</li>
            <li>The value of the default attribute, if the attribute does not appear in the edited
              document.</li>
            <li>Empty, if the attribute does not appear in the edited document and has no default
              value set.</li>
          </ul></dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry id="paste_dlentry">
        <dt><uicontrol>Paste</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>Depending on the content of the clipboard, the following cases are possible: <ul>
            <li>If the clipboard contains an attribute and its value, both of them are introduced in
              the <uicontrol>Attributes</uicontrol> view. The attribute is selected and its value is
              changed if they exist in the <uicontrol>Attributes</uicontrol> view.</li>
            <li>If the clipboard contains an attribute name with an empty value, the attribute is
              introduced in the <uicontrol>Attributes</uicontrol> view and you can start editing it.
              The attribute is selected and you can start editing it if it exists in the
                <uicontrol>Attributes</uicontrol> view.</li>
            <li>If the clipboard only contains text, the value of the selected attribute is
              modified. </li>
          </ul></dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
  </body>
</topic>
