<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="reusables-webauthor-customization">
  <title>Reusable Components in WA Customization Chapters</title>
  <body>
    <p id="oxy-url-p-2">The allowed URL parameters are as follows:<div><u><b>General
          Parameters</b></u></div><ul id="ul_x1l_2x1_br">
        <li id="li_klk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>url</uicontrol> - The <xref
            href="../../topics/oxy-url.dita" format="dita"><term>OXY-URL</term></xref> that
          identifies the file to be opened.</li>
        <li id="li_llk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>folderUrl</uicontrol> - You can use this parameter to
          navigate to the Dashboard with the corresponding repository tab open and the content of
          the specified folder displayed.</li>
        <li id="li_mlk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>userName</uicontrol> - The user name of the author.</li>
        <li id="li_nlk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>autoSaveInterval</uicontrol> - The interval of time (in
          seconds) to wait until an auto-save is performed. If set to <codeph>0</codeph>, the
          auto-save is disabled.</li>
        <li id="li_olk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>ccOnEnter</uicontrol> - If set to <codeph>true</codeph>,
          the content completion popup window is displayed when the user presses
              <uicontrol><shortcut>Enter</shortcut></uicontrol>. If set to <codeph>false</codeph>,
          the <uicontrol><shortcut>Enter</shortcut></uicontrol> key works similar to the behavior in
          a normal word processor application.</li>
        <li id="li_plk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>hideBreadcrumb</uicontrol> - If set to
            <codeph>true</codeph>, the <i>breadcrumb</i> will not be displayed in the
          interface.</li>
        <li id="li_qlk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>lang</uicontrol> - You can use this parameter to impose a
          specific language for the <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> interface. The possible values
            are:<ul id="ul_rlk_bgk_54b">
            <li id="li_slk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>en_US</uicontrol> - English</li>
            <li id="li_tlk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>de_DE</uicontrol> - German</li>
            <li id="li_ulk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>fr_FR</uicontrol> - French</li>
            <li id="li_vlk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>ja_JP</uicontrol> - Japanese</li>
            <li id="li_wlk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>nl_NL</uicontrol> - Dutch</li>
            <li id="li_xlk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>zh_CN</uicontrol> - Chinese</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li id="li_ylk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>spell.check.language</uicontrol> - Specifies the default
          language used for spell checking in the document. The value must be in either a 2-digit or
          4-digit language code format (for example, <codeph>en</codeph> or
          <codeph>en_US</codeph>).</li>
        <li id="li_zlk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>trackChanges</uicontrol> - Flag that controls whether or
          not the editor should track changes. The possible values are:<ul id="ul_bn3_jcf_11b">
            <li id="li_amk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>default</uicontrol> - The status of change tracking
              is determined by the server's global options.</li>
            <li id="li_bmk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>enabled</uicontrol> - Change tracking is enabled but
              the user can disable it using a toolbar action.</li>
            <li id="li_cmk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>forced</uicontrol> - Change tracking is enabled and
              the user cannot disable it. The user can reject their own changes, but cannot accept
              or reject changes made by others.<note id="note_jrm_5y2_mqb">If you use a value other
                than <uicontrol>default</uicontrol>, the server change tracking status (as
                configured in the <xref href="../../topics/webapp-admin-page.dita#webapp-admin-page"
                  >Administration Page</xref>) should not be "Stored in the document".</note></li>
          </ul><p id="p_cqd_wy2_mqb">For more information about this parameter, see <xref
              href="../../topics/wa-force-track-changes.dita#wa-force-track-changes"/>.</p></li>
        <li id="li_lmk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>contentType</uicontrol> - For cases where Web Author
          cannot open a document that has an unrecognized file extension, you can use this parameter
          as a loading option to pass a specific file type so that client-side editing support can
          be used for editing the document. You can also specify an encoding type. Examples for
            values:<ul id="ul_mmk_bgk_54b">
            <li id="li_nmk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>image/png</uicontrol></li>
            <li id="li_omk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>application/xml</uicontrol></li>
            <li id="li_pmk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>text/markdown;charset=utf-8</uicontrol></li>
          </ul></li>
        <li id="li_qmk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>textModeReadOnly</uicontrol> - If set to
            <codeph>true</codeph>, the Web Author XML text editing mode will always be set to
          read-only.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>supportsTextEditing</uicontrol> - If set to <codeph>true</codeph>, Web Author
          allows the editing of non-XML files.</li>
        <li id="li_rmk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>tags-mode</uicontrol> - You can use this parameter to
          specify the <uicontrol>Tags Display Mode</uicontrol> for the document. The possible values
            are:<ul id="ul_vhx_tpc_kjb">
            <li id="li_smk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>full-tags-with-attributes</uicontrol> - Displays full
              tag names with attributes for both <term>block</term> and <term>inline</term>
              elements.</li>
            <li id="li_tmk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>full-tags</uicontrol> - Displays full tag names
              without attributes for both <term>block</term> and <term>inline</term> elements.</li>
            <li id="li_umk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>block-tags</uicontrol> - Displays full tag names for
                <term>block elements</term> and simple tags without names for <term>inline
                elements</term>.</li>
            <li id="li_vmk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>inline-tags</uicontrol> - Displays full tag names for
                <term>inline elements</term>, while <term>block elements</term> are not
              displayed.</li>
            <li id="li_wmk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>partial-tags</uicontrol> - Displays simple tags
              without names for <term>inline elements</term>, while <term>block elements</term> are
              not displayed.</li>
            <li id="li_xmk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>no-tags</uicontrol> - No tags are displayed.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li id="li_ymk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>compactTagsMode</uicontrol> - If the user has the
            <uicontrol>Tags Display Mode</uicontrol> option set to any value that shows the XML
          tags, setting this parameter to <codeph>true</codeph> will compact the tags (for example,
          multiple tags presented on the same line). If set to <codeph>false</codeph>, each tag of a
          block element is presented on a separate line.</li>
        <li id="li_zmk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>quickUpDownNavigation</uicontrol> - If set to
            <codeph>true</codeph>, horizontal cursor positions between block elements are avoided.
          It also forces tags of block elements to be displayed on separate lines, if visible.</li>
        <li id="li_ank_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>diffUrl</uicontrol>
          <i>(File Comparison Tool parameter)</i> - This parameter can be used in conjunction with
          the <uicontrol>url</uicontrol> parameter to specify files to compare with each other. This
          parameter specifies the URL of the file to be opened in the right side of the file
          comparison tool while the <uicontrol>url</uicontrol> parameter specifies the URL of the
          file to be opened in the left side.</li>
        <li id="li_bnk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>diffBaseUrl</uicontrol>
          <i>(File Comparison Tool parameter)</i> - This parameter can be used in conjunction with
          the <uicontrol>url</uicontrol> and <uicontrol>diffUrl</uicontrol> parameters to perform a
          3-way file comparison. This parameter specifies the URL of the original base file, while
          the <uicontrol>url</uicontrol> parameter specifies the URL of the file to be opened in the
          left side of the file comparison tool (the local file), and the
            <uicontrol>diffUrl</uicontrol> parameter specifies the URL of the file to be opened in
          the right side (the remote file).</li>
        <li id="li_ps2_tsm_bwb"><uicontrol>diffType</uicontrol>
          <i>(File Comparison Tool parameter)</i> - Use <codeph>merge</codeph> for the value to
          allow merging. This opens the comparison in the <xref
            href="../../topics/wa-merge-tool.dita" product="webauthor">Merge tool</xref><xref
            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-webauthor/topics/wa-merge-tool.html"
            format="html" scope="external" product="waCustom">Merge tool</xref>. If this parameter
          is not specified, the normal <xref href="../../topics/wa-file-comparison-tool.dita"
            product="webauthor">File Comparison tool</xref><xref
            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-webauthor/topics/wa-file-comparison-tool.html"
            format="html" scope="external" product="waCustom">File Comparison tool</xref> is opened
          and the left editor is not editable.</li>
        <li id="li_cnk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>leftEditorLabel</uicontrol>
          <i>(File Comparison Tool parameter)</i> - This parameter can be used to specify the label
          used for the name of the file in the left side of the file comparison tool. Normally, the
          file name is used.</li>
        <li id="li_dnk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>rightEditorLabel</uicontrol>
          <i>(File Comparison Tool parameter)</i> - This parameter can be used to specify the label
          used for the name of the file in the right side of the file comparison tool. Normally, the
          file name is used.</li>
        <li id="li_jk2_bsn_2rb"><uicontrol>runDiffOnChange</uicontrol>
          <i>(File Merge Tool parameter)</i> - This parameter can be used to control whether or not
          the visual highlights are updated automatically when the user makes changes to the
          document in the Web Author Merge tool. Possible values are: <b>true</b>, <b>false</b>, and
            <b>auto</b> (default value and it means that the value is set as <b>true</b> if the size
          of the merged file is less than 10 KB, otherwise it is set to <b>false</b>). It is useful
          to set this parameter to <b>false</b> for large documents.</li>
        <li id="li_enk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>schematron.imposed.phase</uicontrol> - This parameter can
          be used to impose the Schematron phase to use when validating with a Schematron file.</li>
        <li id="li_fnk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>schematronUrl</uicontrol>
          <i>(Markdown-specific parameter)</i> - This parameter can be used to specify the URL of a
          Schematron file that will be used to validate the Markdown document.</li>
        <li id="li_ewv_1pk_vsb"><uicontrol>searchMode</uicontrol> - This parameter can be used to
          specify whether the search action opens the <uicontrol>Find/Replace</uicontrol> mechanism
          as a pop-up window or as a side view. The possible values are:
            <uicontrol>dialog</uicontrol> (default) or <uicontrol>sideView</uicontrol>.</li>
        <li id="li_ink_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>outlinePlacement</uicontrol> - Specifies the side of the
          interface where the <uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol> pane is placed. Accepted values are:
            <uicontrol>left</uicontrol> or <uicontrol>right</uicontrol>.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>image-cache-size</uicontrol> - Specifies the size (in bytes) of the in-memory
          image cache that <ph keyref="webappProduct"/> uses inside the web browser. By default, the
          cache size is 10000000 bytes. If you encounter images loading slowly (particularly when
          the same images are loaded multiple times), you can increase the cache size limit to
          improve performance.</li>
      </ul><div><u><b>DITA-specific Parameters</b></u><ul id="ul_f4v_5vp_rzb">
          <li id="li_dmk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>ditamap</uicontrol> - The <xref
              href="../../topics/oxy-url.dita" format="dita"><term>OXY-URL</term></xref> of the DITA
            Map to use as a context for resolving keys.</li>
          <li id="li_fb2_dxk_c5b"><uicontrol>ditaMapSide</uicontrol> - Used to control whether the
              <uicontrol>DITA Map</uicontrol> pane is displayed on the left or right side of the
            editor. Possible values are <codeph>left</codeph> or <codeph>right</codeph>.</li>
          <li id="li_p14_yh3_51c"><uicontrol>dita.project.url</uicontrol> - Specifies the URL of the
            DITA project file.</li>
          <li id="li_j1g_l33_51c"><uicontrol>dita.project.contextid</uicontrol> - Can be used in
            conjunction with the <uicontrol>dita.project.url</uicontrol> parameter to specify the
            context declared inside the DITA project file.</li>
          <li id="li_emk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>dita.val.url</uicontrol> - The <xref
              href="../../topics/oxy-url.dita" format="dita"><term>OXY-URL</term></xref> of a
            DITAVAL filter. It is used for resolving keys whose values depend on profiling
            conditions and it grays out content that is excluded by the DITAVAL filter.</li>
          <li id="li_hrk_g5q_vzb2"><uicontrol>show.excluded.content</uicontrol> - Used to control
            whether content excluded by a DITAVAL is hidden or shown as grayed out. The possible
            values (as <i>String</i>) are: <codeph>true</codeph>, <codeph>false</codeph>,
              <codeph>forced.true</codeph>, or <codeph>forced.false</codeph>. If set to
              <codeph>true</codeph>, when a DITAVAL filter is used, the content excluded by the
            DITAVAL filter will be shown as being grayed out. If set to <codeph>false</codeph>, the
            excluded content is hidden. If set to <codeph>forced.true</codeph> or
              <codeph>forced.false</codeph>, the value cannot be changed from the UI and the actions
            to change it will be hidden.<note id="note_v3k_ddk_4fc">This parameter has no effect
              inside the file comparison tool.</note></li>
          <li id="li_fmk_bgk_54b">
            <p id="p_gmk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>KeyscopeStack</uicontrol> - Used for resolving keys
              when DITA 1.3 <i>key scopes</i> are defined in the DITA map. The value looks like
              this:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_hmk_bgk_54b">a b c,d e f</codeblock></p>
            <p id="p_imk_bgk_54b">for a DITA map that has the key scope defined like
              this:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="codeblock_jmk_bgk_54b">&lt;topicref keyscope="a b c">&lt;topicref keyscope="d e f"/>&lt;/topicref></codeblock></p>
          </li>
          <li id="li_kmk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>expandTopicRefs</uicontrol> - If set to
              <codeph>true</codeph>, when a DITA map is opened in <ph keyref="webappProduct"/>, the
            content of all topics referenced in the map will be presented.</li>
          <li id="li_ibr_lvm_bwb"><uicontrol>diffDitamap</uicontrol>
            <i>(File Comparison Tool parameter)</i> - This parameter can be used to specify a DITA
            map for the right-side editor.</li>
          <li id="li_v5s_lvm_bwb"><uicontrol>diff.dita.val.url</uicontrol>
            <i>(File Comparison Tool parameter)</i> - This parameter can be used to specify the URL
            of a <term>DITAVAL</term> file for the right-side editor.</li>
          <li id="li_gnk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>showDitaMapView</uicontrol> - When set to
              <uicontrol>true</uicontrol>, the <uicontrol>DITA Map</uicontrol> view will
            automatically be displayed.  When <uicontrol>false</uicontrol>, the view will be
            hidden.</li>
          <li id="li_hnk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>showTopicTitles</uicontrol> - When set to
              <uicontrol>true</uicontrol>, topic titles are resolved and displayed when a DITA map
            is opened (the same as if the <xref
              href="../../topics/WA-dita-map-doc-type.dita#WA-dita-map-doc-type/view-topic-titles"
                ><uicontrol>View Topic Titles</uicontrol> mode</xref> is selected in the <xref
              href="../../topics/WA-dita-map-doc-type.dita#WA-dita-map-doc-type/dita-map-display-mode"
              >DITA map display mode drop-down</xref>).</li>
          <li id="li_jnk_bgk_54b"><uicontrol>inplaceReferenceEditingSupported</uicontrol> - Can be
            set to <uicontrol>true</uicontrol> if the CMS connector is prepared to <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/ecss/extensions/api/access/AuthorEditorAccess.html#getUnsavedContentReferenceManager()"
              format="html" scope="external">save user changes in files referenced from the open
              document</xref>. When this option is enabled, the <xref
              href="../../topics/WA-dita-map-doc-type.dita#WA-dita-map-doc-type/edit-topic-content"
                ><uicontrol>Edit Topic Content</uicontrol> mode</xref> becomes available when
            opening a DITA Map.</li>
        </ul></div></p>
    <!--Reusable for framework customization script-->
    <note id="note_exf_compile">If you want to use the framework in an older version of <i>Oxygen
        XML Editor/Author</i> that does not have support for these scripts, you can compile the
      script to obtain the <filepath>*.framework</filepath> file by using the <uicontrol>Compile
        Framework Extension script</uicontrol> action from the contextual menu or by running the
        <cmdname>scripts/compileFrameworkScript.bat</cmdname> external tool. Once the script has
      been compiled, <ph keyref="product"/> will detect it and recompile it every time you save the
      framework extension script, as long as you make the changes inside <ph keyref="product"
      />.</note>
    <!--OXY URL Note-->
    <note id="note_oxy-url-git">Git connectors support a <i>Commit ID</i> instead of a <i>Branch</i>
      name. When specifying a commit ID, the file is always open in read-only mode.</note>
  </body>
</topic>
