<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="reusables-preferences-pages">
  <title>Reusable Components for Preferences Pages</title>
  <body>
    <!--Opening the Option>Preferences page -->
    <screen><ph id="preferences"><menucascade product="editor author developer svnClient"><uicontrol>Options</uicontrol><uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol></menucascade><ph product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">in Eclipse preferences choose </ph><uicontrol product="editorEclipse">Oxygen XML Editor</uicontrol><uicontrol product="authorEclipse">Oxygen XML Author</uicontrol><uicontrol product="developerEclipse">Oxygen XML Developer</uicontrol></ph></screen>
    <p><ph id="preferences-standalone" product="author developer editor svnClient"><menucascade>
          <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
        </menucascade></ph>
      <ph id="preferences-eclipse" product="editorEclipse developerEclipse authorEclipse">go to
          <uicontrol>Window</uicontrol> (<uicontrol>Eclipse</uicontrol> on Mac OSX) and choose <menucascade>
          <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol keyref="product"/>
        </menucascade></ph>
      <ph id="preferences-eclipse-not-oxygen" product="editorEclipse developerEclipse authorEclipse"
        >go to <uicontrol>Window</uicontrol> (<uicontrol>Eclipse</uicontrol> on Mac OSX) and choose
          <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol></ph>
    </p>
    <p>
      <ph id="open-the-preferences-page"><xref keyref="options_preferences">open the
            <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol> dialog box <menucascade
            product="editor author developer svnClient">
            <uicontrol>(Options</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Preferences)</uicontrol>
          </menucascade></xref></ph>
    </p>
    <p>
      <ph id="Open-the-preferences-page"><xref keyref="options_preferences">Open the
            <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol> dialog box <menucascade
            product="editor author developer svnClient">
            <uicontrol>(Options</uicontrol>
            <uicontrol>Preferences)</uicontrol>
          </menucascade></xref></ph>
    </p>
    <!--Document Type Association preferences page-->
    <p product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse">
      <ph id="preferences-document-type-association"><xref
          keyref="options_document-type-associations"><uicontrol>Document Type
            Association</uicontrol> preferences page</xref></ph>
    </p>
    <!--MSXML preference pages-->
    <p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry id="validate-during-parse">
          <dt><uicontrol>Validate documents during parse phase</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected, and either the source or stylesheet document has a DTD or schema that its
            content can be checked against, validation is performed.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="do-not-resolve-ext-defs">
          <dt><uicontrol>Do not resolve external definitions during parse phase</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>By default, MSXML instructs the parser to resolve external definitions such as
            document type definition (DTD), external subsets or external entity references when
            parsing the source and style sheet documents. If this option is selected, the resolution
            is disabled.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="strip-whitespace">
          <dt><uicontrol>Strip non-significant whitespaces</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected, strips non-significant white space from the input XML document during the
            load phase. Selecting this option can lower memory usage and improve transformation
            performance while, in most cases, creating equivalent output.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="show-time-information">
          <dt><uicontrol>Show time information</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>If selected, the relative speed of various transformation steps can be measured, including:<ul>
              <li>The time to load, parse, and build the input document.</li>
              <li>The time to load, parse, and build the stylesheet document.</li>
              <li>The time to compile the stylesheet in preparation for the transformation.</li>
              <li>The time to execute the stylesheet.</li>
            </ul></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
    <note id="formatting-note" product="author editor authorEclipse editorEclipse">New lines that
      are added by the user in elements where the <codeph>xml:space</codeph> attribute is set to
        <codeph>preserve</codeph> (such as <codeph>pre</codeph> elements in HTML, or
        <codeph>codeblock</codeph> elements in DITA) are still inserted. Also, selecting this option
      automatically disables the <xref
        href="../../topics/preferences-author.dita#preferences-author/also-apply-format-indent"
          ><uicontrol>Also apply 'Format and Indent' action as in 'Text' edit mode</uicontrol>
        option</xref>, since the formatting from <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode does not take the
      CSS styles into account.</note>
  </body>
</topic>
