<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="reusables-sdk-webauthor">
  <title>Reusable Components for both Web Author/WA Customization</title>
  <body>
    <!--framework customization-->
    <p product="webauthor waCustom" id="p_clk_bgk_54b">
      <ol id="upload-framework-ol">
        <li id="li_dlk_bgk_54b">Go to your <xref href="../../topics/webapp-admin-page.dita#webapp-admin-page"
            >Administration Page</xref>.</li>
        <li id="li_elk_bgk_54b">Select <uicontrol>Frameworks</uicontrol>.</li>
        <li id="li_flk_bgk_54b">
          <p id="p_glk_bgk_54b">Click <uicontrol>Upload Framework</uicontrol> and choose a
              <term>framework</term> to upload. You can enable the <uicontrol>Validate
              frameworks</uicontrol> option to trigger a process that validates the framework during
            the upload and also when the framework is loaded after a restart.<note type="important"
              id="note_hlk_bgk_54b">The framework should be a ZIP or JAR archive that contains
              exactly one folder. This folder should contain the framework descriptor file (with a
                <filepath>.framework</filepath> or <filepath>.exf</filepath> extension) and other
              supporting files. If the uploaded archive does not have this format you will receive
              an error that the upload was rejected. If the folder contains both a
                <filepath>.framework</filepath> and <filepath>.exf</filepath> file, the
                <filepath>.framework</filepath> file will be used.</note></p>
          <p id="p_ilk_bgk_54b"><b>Step Result:</b> The <term>framework</term> should appear in the
            list on this <uicontrol>Frameworks</uicontrol> page. Uploaded frameworks appear with a
            light green highlight so that you can easily identify them.</p>
        </li>
        <li id="li_jlk_bgk_54b">Once you are finished with all of your changes, restart the server.</li>
      </ol>
    </p>
    <!--Security reusable-->
    <p id="p_gsc_5nk_vyb">
      <dl id="security-dl">
        <dlentry id="dlentry_umn_j4k_vyb">
          <dt>Security Options</dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="p_etb_jnk_vyb">
              <dl id="dl_vyj_lnk_vyb">
                <dlentry id="dlentry_j52_fzz_t1c">
                  <dt>Application authentication provider</dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p id="p_kcf_4tk_vfc">Use this option to activate application-level
                      authentication to only allow authenticated users access to the application.
                      This will significantly enhance the application's security, protecting against
                      potential attacks (e.g. denial-of-service attacks). Possible providers include
                        <uicontrol>GitHub</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>GitLab</uicontrol>, and
                        <uicontrol>GitLab Enterprise</uicontrol>, but it is important to note that
                      they are only available if configured (see <xref
                        href="../../topics/webapp-integrate-github-plugin.dita">Integrating Web
                        Author with GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket</xref>).</p>
                    <p id="p_oyk_4tk_vfc">You can also utilize the <xref
                        href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/web-author-rest-plugin" format="html"
                        scope="external">Oxygen XML Web Author REST plugin</xref> to integrate with
                      a CMS or file server and it includes <xref
                        href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/web-author-rest-plugin/blob/HEAD/docs/API-spec.md#authentication"
                        format="html" scope="external">authentication support</xref>. In this case,
                      you would choose <uicontrol>CMS</uicontrol> for the provider.</p>
                    <note id="note_i4x_byf_mfc">Web Author also supports <xref
                        href="../../topics/wa-oidc-auth.dita">OIDC as an application
                        authentication</xref>.</note>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="accept-security-certificate">
                  <dt>Reject invalid security certificates</dt>
                  <dd>If selected, HTTPS connections with invalid certificates will be rejected. If
                    not selected, security certificates are accepted, even if they are invalid.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_xjy_3mk_vyb">
                  <dt>Use the "Secure" attribute for the session cookie</dt>
                  <dd>If selected, the "Secure" cookie attribute will be added on the session
                    cookie. This means that the browser will only send the session cookie over HTTPS
                    (if enabled).<note id="note_rvm_zmk_vyb" type="caution">Do not enable this
                      option unless Web Author is accessed only over HTTPS.</note></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry id="dlentry_wky_hsk_vyb">
                  <dt>Use HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS)</dt>
                  <dd>If selected, the Strict-Transport-Security header that makes browsers access
                    the application's domain will be set using only HTTPS protocol (including
                      subdomains).<note id="note_kk3_1tk_vyb" type="warning">Do not set this option
                      unless all the applications hosted on the DNS domain where Web Author is
                      hosted and the applications on the subdomains of this domain are hosted only
                      over HTTPS. Applications that use HTTP instead of HTTPS and are hosted on the
                      DNS domain of Web Author and its subdomain will not work for Web Author users
                      after you enable this setting.</note></dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
