<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="webhelp-output-parameters">
  <title>WebHelp Output List of Parameters Reusables</title>
  <body>
    <p>DITA/DocBook to WebHelp transformations parameters:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><codeph id="name_args_default_language">args.default.language</codeph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_args_default_language">This parameter is used if the language is not
              detected in the DITA map. The default value is <codeph>en-us</codeph>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><codeph id="name_clean_output">clean.output</codeph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_clean_output">Deletes all files from the output folder before the
              transformation is performed (only <codeph>no</codeph> and <codeph>yes</codeph> values
              are valid and the default value is <codeph>no</codeph>).</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><ph id="name_fix_external_refs_com_oxygenxml"
                ><codeph>fix.external.refs.com.oxygenxml</codeph> (Only supported when the DITA OT
              transformation process is started from <ph keyref="product"/>)</ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_fix_external_refs_com_oxygenxml">The DITA Open Toolkit usually has
              problems processing references that point to locations outside of the directory of the
              processed DITA map. This parameter is used to specify whether or not the application
              should try to fix such references in a temporary files folder before the DITA Open
              Toolkit is invoked on the fixed references. The fix has no impact on your edited DITA
              content. Allowed values: <codeph>true</codeph> or <codeph>false</codeph>
              (default).</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><codeph id="name_use_stemming">use.stemming</codeph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_use_stemming">Controls whether or not you want to include stemming search
              algorithms into the published output (default setting is
            <codeph>false</codeph>).</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><codeph id="name_webhelp_body_script">webhelp.body.script</codeph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_body_script">URL value that specifies the location of a
              well-formed XHTML file containing the custom script that will be copied in the
                <codeph>&lt;body></codeph> section of every WebHelp page.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><codeph id="name_webhelp_copyright">webhelp.copyright</codeph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_copyright">Adds a small copyright text that appears at the end of
              the <term>Table of Contents</term> pane.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><codeph id="name_webhelp_custom_resources">webhelp.custom.resources</codeph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_custom_resources">The file path to a directory that contains
              resources files. All files from this directory will be copied to the root of the
              WebHelp output.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><codeph id="name_webhelp_favicon">webhelp.favicon</codeph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_favicon">The file path that points to an image to be used as a
                <term>favicon</term> in the WebHelp output.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><codeph id="name_webhelp_footer_file">webhelp.footer.file</codeph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_footer_file">Path to an XML file that includes the footer content
              for your WebHelp output pages. You can use this parameter to integrate social media
              features (such as widgets for <tm tmtype="tm">Facebook</tm>, <tm tmtype="tm"
                >Twitter</tm>, Google Analytics, or <tm tmtype="tm">Google+</tm>). The file must be
              well-formed, each widget must be in separate <codeph>div</codeph> or
                <codeph>span</codeph> element, and the code for each <codeph>script</codeph> element
              is included in an XML comment (also, the start and end tags for the XML comment must
              be on a separate line). The following code exert is an example for adding a <tm
                tmtype="tm">Facebook</tm>
            widget:</ph><codeblock outputclass="language-xml" id="example_webhelp_footer_file">&lt;div id="facebook">
    &lt;div id="fb-root"/>
    &lt;script>
            &lt;!-- (function(d, s, id) { var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0]; if (d.getElementById(id)) return; 
            js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id; js.src = "//connect.facebook.net/en_US/sdk.js#xfbml=1&amp;version=v2.0"; 
            fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs); }(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk')); -->
    &lt;/script>
    &lt;div data-share="true" data-show-faces="true" data-action="like" data-layout="standard" class="fb-like"/>
&lt;/div></codeblock></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><codeph id="name_webhelp_footer_include">webhelp.footer.include</codeph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_footer_include">Specifies whether or not to include footer in each
              WebHelp page. Possible values: <codeph>yes</codeph>, <codeph>no</codeph>. If set to
                <codeph>no</codeph>, no footer is added to the WebHelp pages. If set to
                <codeph>yes</codeph> and the <codeph>webhelp.footer.file</codeph> parameter has a
              value, then the content of that file is used as footer. If the
                <codeph>webhelp.footer.file</codeph> has no value then the default <ph
                keyref="product"/> footer is inserted in each WebHelp page.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><codeph id="name_webhelp_google_search_results"
            >webhelp.google.search.results</codeph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_google_search_results">URL value that specifies the location of a
              well-formed XHTML file containing the Google Custom Search Engine element
                <codeph>gcse:searchresults-only</codeph>. You can use all supported attributes for
              this element. It is recommend to set the <codeph>linkTarget</codeph> attribute to
                <codeph>frm</codeph> for frameless (<term>iframe</term>) version of WebHelp or to
                <codeph>contentWin</codeph> for the frameset version of WebHelp. The default value
              for this attribute is <codeph>_blank</codeph> and the search results will be loaded in
              a new window. If this parameter is not specified, the following code will be used
                <codeph>&lt;gcse:searchresults-only
                linkTarget="frm">&lt;/gcse:searchresults-only></codeph></ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><codeph id="name_webhelp_google_search_script"
            >webhelp.google.search.script</codeph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_google_search_script">Specifies the location of a well-formed
              XHTML file containing the Custom Search Engine script from Google. The value must be a
              URL.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><codeph id="name_webhelp_head_script">webhelp.head.script</codeph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_head_script">URL value that specifies the location of a
              well-formed XHTML file containing the custom script that will be copied in the
                <codeph>&lt;head></codeph> section of every WebHelp page.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><ph id="name_webhelp_logo_image_target_url"
                ><codeph>webhelp.logo.image.target.url</codeph></ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_logo_image_target_url">Specifies a target URL that is set on the
              logo image. When you click the logo image, you will be redirected to this
              address.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><ph id="name_webhelp_logo_image"><codeph>webhelp.logo.image</codeph></ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_logo_image">Specifies a path to an image displayed as a logo in
              the left side of the output header.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><ph id="name_webhelp_product_id"><codeph>webhelp.product.id</codeph> (available only
              for Feedback-enabled systems)</ph>
          </dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="def_webhelp_product_id">This parameter specifies a short name for the
              documentation target, or product (for example,
                <filepath>mobile-phone-user-guide</filepath>,
                <filepath>hvac-installation-guide</filepath>).<note>You can deploy documentation for
                multiple products on the same server.</note><note type="restriction">The following
                characters are not allowed in the value of this parameter: <codeph>&lt; > / \ ' ( )
                  { } = ; * % + &amp;</codeph>.</note></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><ph id="name_webhelp_product_version"><codeph>webhelp.product.version</codeph>
              (available only for Feedback-enabled systems)</ph></dt>
          <dd>
            <p id="def_webhelp_product_version">Specifies the documentation version number (for
              example, 1.0, 2.5, etc.). New user comments are bound to this version.<note>Multiple
                documentation versions can be deployed on the same server.</note><note
                type="restriction">The following characters are not allowed in the value of this
                parameter: <codeph>&lt; > / \ ' ( ) { } = ; * % + &amp;</codeph>.</note></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><codeph id="name_webhelp_reload_stylesheet">webhelp.reload.stylesheet</codeph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_reload_stylesheet">Set this parameter to <codeph>true</codeph> if
              you have out of memory problems when generating WebHelp. It will increase processing
              time but decrease the memory footprint. The default value is
              <codeph>false</codeph>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><codeph id="name_webhelp_search_japanese_dictionary"
              >webhelp.search.japanese.dictionary</codeph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_search_japanese_dictionary">The file path of the dictionary that
              will be used by the <term>Kuromoji</term> morphological engine that <ph
                keyref="product"/> uses for indexing Japanese content in the WebHelp pages. This
              indexer does not come bundled with <ph keyref="product"/> or the <ph keyref="webhelp"
              /> plugin. To use it, you need to download it from <xref
                href="http://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.apache.lucene/lucene-analyzers-kuromoji/4.0.0"
                format="html" scope="external"/> and add it in the <filepath><term
                  keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"/>/plugins/com.oxygenxml.webhelp/lib</filepath>
              directory.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><ph id="name_webhelp_search_ranking"><codeph>webhelp.search.ranking</codeph></ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_search_ranking">If this parameter is set to <codeph>false</codeph>
              then the 5-star rating mechanism is no longer included in the search results that are
              displayed on the <uicontrol>Search</uicontrol> tab (default setting is
                <codeph>true</codeph>).</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><codeph id="name_webhelp_show_changes_and_comments"
              >webhelp.show.changes.and.comments</codeph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_show_changes_and_comments">When set to <codeph>yes</codeph>, user
              comments, replies to comments, and tracked changes are published in the WebHelp
              output. The default value is <codeph>no</codeph>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><codeph id="name_webhelp_sitemap_base_user">webhelp.sitemap.base.url</codeph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_sitemap_base_user">Base URL for all the <codeph>loc</codeph>
              elements in the generated <filepath>sitemap.xml</filepath> file. The value of a
                <codeph>loc</codeph> element is computed as the relative file path from the
                <codeph>href</codeph> attribute of a <codeph>topicref</codeph> element from the DITA
              map, appended to this base URL value. The <codeph>loc</codeph> element is mandatory in
                <filepath>sitemap.xml</filepath>. If you leave this parameter set to its default
              empty value, then the <filepath>sitemap.xml</filepath> file is not
            generated.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><codeph id="name_webhelp_sitemap_change_frequency"
              >webhelp.sitemap.change.frequency</codeph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_sitemap_change_frequency">The value of the
                <codeph>changefreq</codeph> element in the generated
                <filepath>sitemap.xml</filepath> file. The <codeph>changefreq</codeph> element is
              optional in <filepath>sitemap.xml</filepath>. If you leave this parameter set to its
              default empty value, then the <codeph>changefreq</codeph> element is not added in
                <filepath>sitemap.xml</filepath>. Allowed values: &lt;empty string> (default),
                <codeph>always</codeph>, <codeph>hourly</codeph>, <codeph>daily</codeph>,
                <codeph>weekly</codeph>, <codeph>monthly</codeph>, <codeph>yearly</codeph>,
                <codeph>never</codeph>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><codeph id="name_webhelp_sitemap_priority">webhelp.sitemap.priority</codeph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_sitemap_priority">The value of the <codeph>priority</codeph>
              element in the generated <filepath>sitemap.xml</filepath> file. It can be set to any
              fractional number between 0.0 (least important priority) and 1.0 (most important
              priority). For example, 0.3, 0.5, or 0.8. The <codeph>priority</codeph> element is
              optional in <filepath>sitemap.xml</filepath>. If you leave this parameter set to its
              default empty value, then the <codeph>priority</codeph> element is not added in
                <filepath>sitemap.xml</filepath>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><ph id="name_webhelp_skin_css"><codeph>webhelp.skin.css</codeph></ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_skin_css">Path to a CSS file that sets the style theme in the
              output WebHelp pages. It can be one of the predefined skin CSS from the
                <filepath>OXYGEN_INSTALL_DIR\frameworks\docbook\xsl\com.oxygenxml.webhelp\predefined-skins</filepath>
              directory, or it can be a custom skin CSS generated with the <xref
                href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/webhelp-skin-builder" format="html" scope="external"
                >Oxygen Skin Builder</xref> web application.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
    <!--DocBook-specific:-->
    <p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><codeph id="name_l10n_gentext_default_language"
            >l10n.gentext.default.language</codeph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_l10n_gentext_default_language">This parameter is used to identify the
              correct stemmer that differs from language to language. For example, for English the
              value of this parameter is <codeph>en</codeph> or for French it is
              <codeph>fr</codeph>, and so on.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
    <!--Responsive System Parameters-->
    <p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry id="fragment-dlentry">
          <dt><ph id="name_webhelp_fragment_after_body"
              ><codeph>webhelp.fragment.after.body</codeph></ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_fragment_after_body">Specifies an XML fragment (or a path to a
              file that contains well formed XML content) that will be displayed after the body in
              the output.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><ph id="name_webhelp_fragment_after_logo_and_title"
                ><codeph>webhelp.fragment.after.logo_and_title</codeph></ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_fragment_after_logo_and_title">Specifies an XML fragment (or a
              path to a file that contains well formed XML content) that will be displayed after the
              logo and title in the output.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><ph id="name_webhelp_fragment_after_main_page_search"
                ><codeph>webhelp.fragment.after.main.page.search</codeph></ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_fragment_after_main_page_search">Specifies an XML fragment (or a
              path to a file that contains well formed XML content) that will be displayed after the
              search field in the output.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><ph id="name_webhelp_fragment_after_toc_or_tiles"
                ><codeph>webhelp.fragment.after.toc_or_tiles</codeph></ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_fragment_after_toc_or_tiles">Specifies an XML fragment (or a path
              to a file that contains well formed XML content) that will be displayed after the
              table of contents or tiles in the main page of the output.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><ph id="name_webhelp_fragment_after_top_menu"
                ><codeph>webhelp.fragment.after.top_menu</codeph></ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_fragment_after_top_menu">Specify an XML fragment (or a path to a
              file that contains well formed XML content) that will be displayed after the top menu
              in the output.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><ph id="name_webhelp_fragment_before_body"
                ><codeph>webhelp.fragment.before.body</codeph></ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_fragment_before_body">Specify an XML fragment (or a path to a file
              that contains well formed XML content) that will be displayed before the body in the
              output.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><ph id="name_webhelp_fragment_before_logo_and_title"
                ><codeph>webhelp.fragment.before.logo_and_title</codeph></ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_fragment_before_logo_and_title">Specify an XML fragment (or a path
              to a file that contains well formed XML content) that will be displayed before the
              logo and title in the output.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><ph id="name_webhelp_fragment_before_main_page_search"
                ><codeph>webhelp.fragment.before.main.page.search</codeph></ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_fragment_before_main_page_search">Specify an XML fragment (or a
              path to a file that contains well formed XML content) that will be displayed before
              the search field in the output.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><ph id="name_webhelp_fragment_before_toc_or_tiles"
                ><codeph>webhelp.fragment.before.toc_or_tiles</codeph></ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_fragment_before_toc_or_tiles">Specify an XML fragment (or a path
              to a file that contains well formed XML content) that will be displayed before the
              table of contents or tiles in the main page of the output.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><ph id="name_webhelp_fragment_before_top_menu"
                ><codeph>webhelp.fragment.before.top_menu</codeph></ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_fragment_before_top_menu">Specify an XML fragment (or a path to a
              file that contains well formed XML content) that will be displayed before the top menu
              in the output.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><ph id="name_webhelp_fragment_footer"
            ><codeph>webhelp.fragment.footer</codeph></ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_fragment_footer">Specify an XML fragment (or a path to a file that
              contains well formed XML content) that will be displayed as the footer in the
              output</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><ph id="name_webhelp_fragment_head"><codeph>webhelp.fragment.head</codeph></ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_fragment_head">Specify an XML fragment (or a path to a file that
              contains well formed XML content) that will be displayed as the header in the
              output.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><ph id="name_webhelp_fragment_welcome"
            ><codeph>webhelp.fragment.welcome</codeph></ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_fragment_welcome">Specify an XML fragment (or a path to a file
              that contains well formed XML content) that will be displayed as a welcome message (or
              title) in the output.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><ph id="name_webhelp_show_breadcrumb"
            ><codeph>webhelp.show.breadcrumb</codeph></ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_show_breadcrumb">Specifies if the breadcrumb component will be
              presented in the output. The default value is <codeph>yes</codeph>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><ph id="name_webhelp_show_indexterms_link"
                ><codeph>webhelp.show.indexterms.link</codeph></ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_show_indexterms_link">Specifies if an icon that links to the index
              will be presented in the output. The default value is <codeph>yes</codeph>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><ph id="name_webhelp_show_main_page_tiles"
                ><codeph>webhelp.show.main.page.tiles</codeph></ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_show_main_page_tiles">Specifies if the tiles component will be
              presented in the main page of the output. For a <term>tree</term> style layout, this
              parameter should be set to <codeph>no</codeph>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><ph id="name_webhelp_show_main_page_toc"
              ><codeph>webhelp.show.main.page.toc</codeph></ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_show_main_page_toc">Specifies if the table of contents will be
              presented in the main page of the output. The default value is
              <codeph>yes</codeph>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><ph id="name_webhelp_show_navigation_links"
                ><codeph>webhelp.show.navigation.links</codeph></ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_show_navigation_links">Specifies if navigation links will be
              presented in the output. The default value is <codeph>yes</codeph>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><ph id="name_webhelp_show_print_link"
            ><codeph>webhelp.show.print.link</codeph></ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_show_print_link">Specifies if a print link or icon will be
              presented within each topic in the output. The default value is
              <codeph>yes</codeph>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><ph id="name_webhelp_show_side_toc"><codeph>webhelp.show.side.toc</codeph></ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_show_side_toc">Specifies if a side table of contents will be
              presented on the right side of each topic in the output. The default value is
                <codeph>yes</codeph>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><ph id="name_webhelp_show_top_menu"><codeph>webhelp.show.top.menu</codeph></ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_show_top_menu">Specifies if a menu will be presented at the topic
              of the main page in the output. The default value is <codeph>yes</codeph>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><ph id="name_webhelp_top_menu_depth"><codeph>webhelp.top.menu.depth</codeph></ph></dt>
          <dd><ph id="def_webhelp_top_menu_depth">Specifies the maximum depth level of the topics
              that will be included in the top menu. The default value is
            <codeph>2</codeph>.</ph></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
