<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD LIGHTWEIGHT DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="adding_actions_from_an_author_framework_customization">
    <title>Adding Toolbar and Menu Actions</title>
    <body>
        <p id="p_jyf_dgk_54b">The <xref href="frameworks.dita">framework customization</xref> can define actions that
      appear on a framework-specific toolbar when editing content in the <b>Author</b> visual
      editing mode.</p>
        <p id="p_kyf_dgk_54b">You can use the <xref href="../topics/the-action-dialog.dita"><b>Author Action</b> dialog
        box</xref> to configure the name, description, icons, menu shortcuts, and various <xref
        href="../topics/xpath-activation-expressions.dita">XPath-enabled activation
        operations</xref>.</p>
        <p id="p_lyf_dgk_54b">You can use a <xref
        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-editor/topics/dg-default-author-operations.html"
        format="html" scope="external">variety of pre-defined operations</xref> in each activation
      mode to achieve various things:</p>
        <ul id="ul_hz2_vf1_qgb">
            <li id="li_myf_dgk_54b">
                <p id="p_nyf_dgk_54b">Insert an XML fragment in the document either at the current position or at a
          specified offset.</p>
            </li>
            <li id="li_oyf_dgk_54b">
                <p id="p_pyf_dgk_54b">Set an attribute with a certain value on a certain element.</p>
            </li>
            <li id="li_qyf_dgk_54b">
                <p id="p_ryf_dgk_54b">Invoke an XSLT script using the <b>XSLTOperation</b> to produce an XML fragment
          to be inserted in the document.</p>
            </li>
            <li id="li_syf_dgk_54b">
                <p id="p_tyf_dgk_54b">Invoke a JavaScript function that can use the <b>Author</b> mode APIs to modify
          the document. Some samples of such operations can be found here: <xref
            href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/javascript-sample-operations" format="html"
            scope="external"/>.</p>
            </li>
            <li id="li_uyf_dgk_54b">
                <p id="p_vyf_dgk_54b">Set a CSS pseudo-class on a certain element. The pseudo-class can be matched from
          the CSS to style various elements differently.</p>
            </li>
        </ul>
        <p id="p_wyf_dgk_54b">You can also create custom <b>Author</b> mode operations by extending the <xref
        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/ecss/extensions/api/AuthorOperation.html"
        format="html" scope="external"><b>AuthorOperation</b> Java API</xref>.</p>
        <p id="p_xyf_dgk_54b">Once a custom action has been created, it can be added to the main
      menu, toolbar, or contextual menu.</p>
    </body>
</topic>
