<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD LIGHTWEIGHT DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="customizing_the_content_completion">
    <title>Customizing the Content Completion Proposals</title>
    <body>
        <p>When editing an XML document either in the <b>Text</b> or in the <b>Author</b> editing
            modes you can invoke the content completion window (Ctrl-Space in the Text editing mode
            or <b>ENTER</b> in the Author viual editing mode) to see the allowed XML elements  or
            attributes which can be inserted at the caret position. In addition the <b>Elements</b>
            view also presents the elements which can be inserted in the document at a certain
            position. Also the <b>Attributes</b> view presents a list of attributes and for each
            attribute a set of values are proposed.</p>
        <p>The content completion proposals can be customized in various ways:</p>
        <ul
            id="ul_rqk_mzz_pgb">
            <li>
                <p>Each framework can contain a special content completion configuration file: <xref
                        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/20.1/ug-editor/topics/configuring-content-completion-proposals.html"
                        format="html" scope="external"/>. Such a file can:</p>
                <ul id="ul_wxs_vzz_pgb">
                    <li>
                        <p>Filter out element proposals for a parent element.</p>
                    </li>
                    <li>
                        <p>Configure a set of required attributes which will get inserted along with
                            a certain element.</p>
                    </li>
                    <li>
                        <p>Add new attribute value proposals and for each proposal add an annotation
                            which will appear in the Attributes view for each value.</p>
                    </li>
                    <li>
                        <p>Call an external XSLT script to compute value proposals for a certain
                            attribute.</p>
                    </li>
                    <li>
                        <p>Customize how the element names are presented in the Outline, Elements
                            view and Content Completion proposals window.</p>
                    </li>
                </ul>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>By altering the schema which is associated to the XML document. For example in
                    the case of the <b>DITA</b> vocabulary you may create a DTD specialization
                    plugin and integrate it in Oxygen: <xref
                        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/20.1/ug-editor/topics/dita-integrate-specialization.html"
                        format="html" scope="external"/>.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>By using tin a framework configuration the <xref
                        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/contentcompletion/xml/SchemaManagerFilter.html"
                        format="html" scope="external"><b>SchemaManagerFilter</b></xref> API to
                    filter using Java code the set of proposed elements and attribute values.</p>
            </li>
        </ul>
    </body>
</topic>
