<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD LIGHTWEIGHT DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="user_interraction">
    <title>Interraction with the End User</title>
    <body>
        <p>Your plugin most of the times needs to interract with the end user. You can find below
            some possibilities to do that:
        </p>
        <ul id="ul_dwq_hzj_rgb">
            <li>
                <p>Your plugin can create Swing components (dialogs, frames) based on the Java Swing
                    architecture and can show them when <xref
                        href="adding_actions_via_a_plugin.dita">custom actions</xref> added by the
                    plugin to the menus and toolbars are called. You can also extend the Oxygen
                    specific API base class <xref
                        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/exml/workspace/api/standalone/ui/OKCancelDialog.html"
                        format="html" scope="external">OKCancelDialog</xref> to create a dialog
                    which already has <b>Ok</b> and <b>Cancel</b> buttons added to it. This specific
                    dialog base also automatically resizes its internal components depending on the
                    current used fonts or DPI settings and also properly positions its
                        <b>OK/Cancel</b> buttons depending on the operating system in which Oxygen
                    is started (on Mac OSX the <b>OK</b> button is on the right part of the dialog
                    while on Windows and Linux it's placed on the left part of the dialog). There is
                    an entire <xref
                        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/exml/workspace/api/standalone/ui/package-summary.html"
                        format="html" scope="external">API package</xref> which contains base
                    implementations of Swing components and such implementations are recommanded to
                    be used in order for the plugin-contributed components to look like the ones
                    contributed by Oxygen.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>Your plugin can <xref href="adding_or_customizing_an_existing_view.dita">add a
                        specific side view</xref>.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>The <xref
                        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/exml/workspace/api/WorkspaceUtilities.html"
                        format="html" scope="external">WorkspaceUtilities</xref> API allows you to:
                </p><ul id="ul_zj2_21k_rgb">
                    <li>
                        <p>Show file and folder choosers</p>
                    </li>
                    <li>
                        <p>Show confirmation dialogs.</p>
                    </li>
                    <li>
                        <p>Show information/warning or error dialogs.</p>
                    </li>
                    <li>
                        <p>Show a custom status message in the application.</p>
                    </li>
                </ul>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>The <xref
                        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/exml/workspace/api/PluginWorkspace.html#getResultsManager--"
                        format="html" scope="external">ResultsManager</xref> API allows you to add
                    results in the application's Results view, results which can point to a specific
                    document at a specific line/column location.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>The title of the main application frame can be modified using this API: <xref
                        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/exml/workspace/api/Workspace.html#setParentFrameTitle-java.lang.String-"
                        format="html" scope="external"/>.</p>
            </li>
        </ul>
    </body>
</topic>
