<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="oxygen-publishing-template">
  <title>WebHelp Publishing Template</title>
  <body>
    
      <draft-comment author="radu_pisoi">
      <p>This topic should be an overview for the <term>oXygen Publishing Template</term> feature.
        It should answer to the following questions:<ul id="ul_xwy_g5g_ybb">
          <li>What is <term>oXygen Publishing Template</term>? Why should anyone want it?<p>Another
              important use case covered by the <term>oXygen Publishing Template</term> is that you
              can use it to <b>share a WebHelp Responsive customization</b> with your team. Or you
              can develop it using <ph keyref="product"/> standalone application and then use it in
              a continuous integration system to publish your documentation whenever it was
              changed.</p></li>
          <li>Where is it available?<p><term>oXygen Publishing Template</term> feature is available
              only for WebHelp Responsive transformation using DITA documents. It will be used in a
              future version to customize the <term>DITA Map PDF - WYSIWYG</term> transformation.
              TODO</p></li>
        </ul></p>
    </draft-comment>
    <p><term>WebHelp Publishing Template</term> defines all the aspects related with the <b>look and
        feel(layout and styles) for the WebHelp Responsive output</b>. For instance, you can use it
      to change the layout of the topic or main page by customizing which components will be
      displayed and their position in the page.</p>
    <p>The WebHelp Publishing Template </p>
    <section id="section_z41_lmy_pcb"><title>Template Resources and Packaging modes</title><p>A
        WebHelp publishing template consist of a set of resources(CSS, JS, fonts) used to define the
        ouput. These resources and other information are referenced from a descriptor file. All
        these resources that defines the template can be stored in a ZIP archive or they can be
        stored in a folder.</p>A sample structure of a WebHelp template is:</section>
    <section id="section_wsr_qqy_pcb">
      <p>
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>WebHelp Template Descriptor</dt>
            <dd>The template descriptor defines all the resources referenced by a template like HTML
              page templates, CSS, JS, fonts, transformation parameters.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>HTML Page Templates</dt>
            <dd>The HTML page templates used to generate all WebHelp pages. </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Transformation parameters</dt>
            <dd/>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
    </section>
    <p>You can package a WebHelp Publishin Template as a ZIP archive or you can store all resources
      in a </p>
    
  </body>
</topic>
