<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_tjq_tcw_gt">
  <title>A Short Story of Reuse</title>
  <body>
    <p>Give the smartest human in the world a piece of <b>wood</b> and ask him/her to make
        <b>paper</b>. Give him/her <b>no prior tools</b> and it will take <b>years</b> to come up
      with a decent process which would result in some brown almost usable thick piece of paper. </p>
    <p>This blog post is about <b>reuse</b>, not necessarily <b>reuse of tools and materials</b>,
      but <b>reuse of knowledge</b>. Humanity has evolved not because each generation is smarter
      than the last one but because we learned to <b>reuse and pass knowledge</b> to larger and
      larger audiences and from one generation to another. </p>
    <p>Almost all <b>tools</b> that we use today are made up of quite a complex set of components
      which interact with each other. There is no one person in a car assembly factory who still
      knows all the pieces and how they come together. </p>
    <p>Although using the tool is easier than interacting with all components which make it up, you
      still need knowledge to operate it and in this day and age having enough people to teach how a
      certain tool can be used is no longer an option. You need to pass knowledge <b>in other
        forms</b>, on <b>paper</b> or in some kind of <b>digital form</b>. So I would define
        <b>technical communication</b> as a means of passing knowledge about using tools to a
        <b>larger audience</b>.</p>
    <p>Reuse in technical communication can be structured on <b>many levels</b>:<ul
        id="ul_k13_qgw_gt">
        <li>
          <p>Reuse written content by <b>publishing it to more than one format</b> (PDF, HTML, EPUB,
            MS Word).</p>
          <p>It turns out that <b>XML</b> is perfect for publishing content in more than one format.
              <b>XML</b> is not designed to be consumed directly by end users and its benefit lies
            directly in this. Your <b>XML</b> content should contain all the data necessary for
            obtaining all the output formats. So if you are using <b>XML</b> in your <b>technical
              content</b>, no matter what <b>standard</b> or <b>custom</b> vocabulary, you can
            safely check the first and most important level of reuse.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Create <b>larger publications</b> from <b>existing ones</b>.</p>
          <p>Either using an <b>XML</b> standard like <b>XInclude</b> or using standards with their
            own diverse and powerful methods of reuse like <b>DITA</b>, or by performing custom
            techniques you can merge <b>XML</b> content in larger publications.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Reuse content written for a <b>certain tool</b> to document the functionality and
            behavior of a very <b>similar tool</b>.</p>
          <p>In most mature <b>XML</b> standards like <b>DITA</b> and <b>Docbook</b> there is this
            implemented concept of profiling which allows you to dynamically filter at publishing
            time content marked with certain attributes from your original <b>XML</b> project. In
            this way from the same <b>XML</b> content you can publish documentation for multiple
            similar tools.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Reuse <b>smaller pieces</b> of common content in <b>more than one</b> publication.</p>
          <p>Again, using <b>XML</b> standards like <b>XInclude</b> or <b>DITA</b> specific
            standards like <b>content references</b> you can create and maintain small libraries of
              <b>reusable XML content</b>, then reuse these components across various
            publications.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Reuse <b>images</b> and other <b>binary resources</b> in multiple publications.</p>
          <p>Because <b>XML</b> content does not embed <b>binary resources</b>, these resources are
            stored separately and thus they can be reused in multiple places.</p>
        </li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>So these are what I consider to be the main selling points for using <b>XML</b> in technical
      documentation. As usual any feedback is welcomed.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
