<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="date-picker-editor">
  <title>The Date Picker Form Control</title>
  <body>
    <p>A text field with a calendar browser is used as a form control. The browse button shows a
      date chooser allowing you to easily choose a certain date. <ph
        conref="../topics/oxy-editor-properties.dita#oxy-editor-properties/adding_form_controls"/>
      <codeph>oxy_datePicker</codeph>. This type of form control supports the following
        properties:<ul id="ul_ec1_jzk_wh">
        <li><ph conref="../topics/oxy-editor-properties.dita#oxy-editor-properties/type-property"/>.
          For the Date picker form control, its value has to be <codeph>datePicker</codeph>;</li>
        <li>
          <p conref="../topics/oxy-editor-properties.dita#oxy-editor-properties/edit_property"/>
        </li>
        <li><ph conref="../topics/oxy-editor-properties.dita#oxy-editor-properties/columns-property"
          />;</li>
        <li><ph conref="../topics/oxy-editor-properties.dita#oxy-editor-properties/color-property"
          />;</li>
        <li><codeph>format</codeph> - this property specifies the format of the inserted date. The
          pattern value must be a valid Java date (or date-time) format. If missing, the type of the
          date is determined from the associated schema;</li>
        <li><ph conref="../topics/oxy-editor-properties.dita#oxy-editor-properties/visible-property"
          />;</li>
        <li><codeph>validateInput</codeph> - specifies if the form control is validated. In case you
          introduce a date that does not respect the format, the <codeph>datePicker</codeph> form
          control is rendered with red foreground. By default, the input is validated. To disable
          the validation, set this property to <codeph>false</codeph>.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <example>
      <title>Date Picker Form Control</title>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css">date {
    content:
        oxy_label(text, "Date time attribute with format defined in CSS: ", width, 300px)
        oxy_editor(
            type, datePicker, 
            columns, 16, 
            edit, "@attribute",
            format, "yyyy-MM-dd");
}</codeblock>The
        <codeph>oxy_editor</codeph> function acts as a proxy that allows you to insert any of the
      supported form controls. Alternatively, you can use the <codeph>oxy_datePicker</codeph>
      dedicated
      function.<codeblock outputclass="language-css">date {
    content:
        oxy_label(text, "Date time attribute with format defined in CSS: ", width, 300px)
        oxy_datePicker(
            columns, 16, 
            edit, "@attribute",
            format, "yyyy-MM-dd");
}</codeblock>
    </example>
  </body>
</topic>
