<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="dg-action-function">
  <title>The <codeph>oxy_action()</codeph> Function</title>
  <!--Proofed-->
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm><keyword keyref="product"/> CSS extensions<indexterm><keyword keyref="product"/>
            CSS custom
          functions<indexterm><varname>oxy_action()</varname></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <p>The <codeph>oxy_action()</codeph> function allows you to define actions directly in the CSS,
      rather than referencing them from the associated framework. It is used from the
        <codeph>oxy_button()</codeph> function.</p>
    <p>The arguments received by the <codeph>oxy_action()</codeph> function are a list of properties
      that define an action. The following properties are supported:</p>
    <p id="oxy-action-properties1">
      <ul>
        <li><codeph>name</codeph> -  the name of the action. It will be displayed as the label for
          the button or menu item.</li>
        <li><codeph>description</codeph> (optional) - a short description with details about the
          result of the action.</li>
        <li><codeph>icon</codeph> (optional) - a path relative to the CSS pointing to an image (the
          icon for the action). It can be expressed as <xref href="../topics/editor-variables.dita"
            >editor variables</xref>.</li>
        <li><codeph>operation</codeph> - the name of the java class implementing the <xref
            href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/ecss/extensions/api/AuthorOperation.html"
            format="html" scope="external"
              ><apiname>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.AuthorOperation</apiname></xref> interface.</li>
        <li><codeph>arg-<i>&lt;string></i></codeph> - all arguments with the <codeph>arg-</codeph>
          prefix are passed to the operation (the string that follows the <codeph>arg-</codeph>
          prefix is passed).</li>
        <li><codeph>ID</codeph> - (optional) -  the ID of the action from the framework. If this is
          specified, all others parameters are disregarded.</li>
      </ul>
    </p>
    <example>
      <codeblock>oxy_action(
          name, 'Insert', 
          description, 'Insert an element after the current one', 
          icon, url('insert.png'), 
          operation, 'ro.sync.ecss.extensions.commons.operations.InsertFragmentOperation', 
          arg-fragment, '&lt;element&gt;${caret}&lt;/element&gt;',
          arg-insertLocation, '.',
          arg-insertPosition, 'After'
)</codeblock>
    </example>
  </conbody>
</concept>
