<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="dg-editor-function">
  <title>The <codeph>oxy_editor()</codeph> Function</title>
  <shortdesc>The <codeph>oxy_editor</codeph> function allows you to edit attributes or simple
    element values in the <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> mode using standard form controls like combo
    boxes, text fields, pop-ups, URL choosers or to implement your own custom form controls and
    renderers.</shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <p>The <codeph>oxy_editor()</codeph> function can appear in the <codeph>content</codeph>
      property of a CSS rule. The function's arguments are <i>property name - property value</i>
      pairs:</p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-css">myElement {
    content: oxy_editor(
        type, combo,
        edit, "@my_attr"
    )
}</codeblock>
    <p>The form control allows you to edit Processing Instructions (PIs), the value of an attribute,
      or the text content of an element. This is specified using the <codeph>edit</codeph> property.
      This property can have the following values:<ul>
        <li><uicontrol>@attribute_name</uicontrol> - specifies that the presented/edited value is
          the value of an attribute;</li>
        <li><uicontrol>#text</uicontrol> - specifies that the presented/edited value is the simple
          text value of an element. This text can contain built-in character entities.<note>You can
            set the value of the <codeph>visibility</codeph> property to
              <codeph>-oxy-collapse-text</codeph> to render the text only in the form control that
            the oxy_editor function specifies.</note></li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>You can use a number of built-in form controls through the <codeph>type</codeph> property.
      The following values are recognized:<ul>
        <li><xref href="text-field-editor.dita#text-field-editor"><uicontrol>text</uicontrol></xref>
          - a text field with optional content completion capabilities is used to present and edit a
          value;</li>
        <li><xref href="combo-box-editor.dita#combo-box-editor"><uicontrol>combo</uicontrol></xref>
          - a combo-box is used to present and edit a value;</li>
        <li><xref href="check-box-editor.dita#check-box-editor"><uicontrol>check</uicontrol></xref>
          - a single check box or multiple check boxes are used to present and edit a value;</li>
        <li><xref href="pop-up-editor.dita#pop-up-editor"
            ><uicontrol>popupSelection</uicontrol></xref> - a pop-up with single/multiple selection
          is used as form control;</li>
        <li><xref href="button-editor.dita#button-editor"><uicontrol>button</uicontrol></xref> - a
          button that invokes an author action is used as form control;</li>
        <li><xref href="url-chooser-editor.dita#url-chooser-editor"
              ><uicontrol>urlChooser</uicontrol></xref> - a text field with a browse button is used
          as form control.</li>
        <li><xref href="date-picker-editor.dita#date-picker-editor"
              ><uicontrol>datePicker</uicontrol></xref> - a text field with a calendar browser
          button is used as form control.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>To watch our video demonstration about form controls, go to <xref
        href="http://oxygenxml.com/demo/Form_Controls.html" format="html" scope="external"
        >http://oxygenxml.com/demo/Form_Controls.html</xref>.</p>
  </conbody>
  <related-links>
    <link
      href="../topics/api_faq_add_form_control_from_filter.dita#api-faq-add-form-control-from-filter"
    />
  </related-links>
</concept>
