<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="dg-oxy-link-text">
 <title>The <codeph>oxy_link-text()</codeph> Function</title>
 <shortdesc></shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>You can use the <codeph>oxy_link-text()</codeph> function on the CSS <codeph>content</codeph>
      property to obtain a text description from the source of a reference. By default, the
        <codeph>oxy_link-text()</codeph> function resolves DITA and DocBook references. For further
      details about how you can also extend this functionality to other frameworks, go to <xref
        href="../tasks/dg-extensions-bundle.dita#dg-extensions-bundle">Configuring an Extensions
        Bundle</xref>.</p>
  <section>
   <title>DITA Support</title>
   <p>For DITA, the <codeph>oxy_link-text()</codeph> function resolves the <codeph>xref</codeph>
        element and the elements that have a <codeph>keyref</codeph> attribute. The text description
        is the same as the one presented in the final output for those elements. If you use this
        function for a <codeph>topicref</codeph> element that has the <codeph>navtitle</codeph> and
          <codeph>locktitle</codeph> attributes set, the function returns the value of the
          <codeph>navtitle</codeph> attribute.</p>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title>DocBook Support</title>
   <p>For DocBook, the <codeph>oxy_link-text()</codeph> function resolves the <codeph>xref</codeph>
        element that defines a link in the same document. The text description is the same as the
        one presented in the final output for those elements.</p>
   <p>For the following XML and associated CSS fragments the <codeph>oxy_link-text()</codeph>
    function is resolved to the value of the <codeph>xreflabel</codeph> attribute.</p>
   <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;para>&lt;code id="para.id" xreflabel="The reference label">my code&lt;/code>&lt;/para>
&lt;para>&lt;xref linkend="para.id"/>&lt;/para></codeblock>
   <codeblock outputclass="language-css">xref {
    content: oxy_link-text();
}</codeblock>
  </section>
 </conbody>
</concept>
