<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept id="dg-xml-instance-template">
  <title>The XML Instance Template</title>
  <shortdesc>Based
    on the XML Schema and the CSS file the Author can help the
    content author in loading, editing and validating the test reports. An XML file template must be
    created, a kind of skeleton, that the users can use as a starting point for creating new test
    reports. The template must be generic enough and refer the XML Schema file and the CSS
    stylesheet.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>Customization Support<indexterm>simple customization tutorial<indexterm>XML instance
              template </indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <p>This is an example:</p>
    <codeblock>
&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?&gt;
&lt;?xml-stylesheet type="text/css" href="test_report.css"?&gt;
&lt;report xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" 
  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="test_report.xsd"&gt;
  &lt;title&gt;Automated test report&lt;/title&gt;
  &lt;description&gt;
    &lt;line&gt;This is the report of the test automatically ran. Each test suite is ran at 20:00h each
      day. Please &lt;important&gt;check&lt;/important&gt; the failed ones!&lt;/line&gt;
  &lt;/description&gt;
  &lt;results&gt;
    &lt;entry&gt;
      &lt;test_name&gt;Database connection test&lt;/test_name&gt;
      &lt;passed&gt;true&lt;/passed&gt;
    &lt;/entry&gt;
    &lt;entry&gt;
      &lt;test_name&gt;XSLT Transformation test&lt;/test_name&gt;
      &lt;passed&gt;true&lt;/passed&gt;
    &lt;/entry&gt;
    &lt;entry&gt;
      &lt;test_name&gt;DTD validation test&lt;/test_name&gt;
      &lt;passed&gt;false&lt;/passed&gt;
    &lt;/entry&gt;
  &lt;/results&gt;
&lt;/report&gt;
</codeblock>
    <p>The processing instruction <codeph>xml-stylesheet</codeph> associates the CSS stylesheet to
      the XML file. The href pseudo attribute contains the URI reference to the stylesheet file. In
      our case the CSS is in the same directory as the XML file.</p>
    <p>The next step is to place the XSD file and the CSS file on a web server and modify the
      template to use the HTTP URLs, like this:</p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?&gt;
&lt;?xml-stylesheet type="text/css" 
        href="http://www.mysite.com/reports/test_report.css"?&gt;
&lt;report xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" 
        xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation=
        "http://www.mysite.com/reports/test_report.xsd"&gt;
    &lt;title&gt;Test report title&lt;/title&gt;
    &lt;description&gt;
.......</codeblock>
    <p>The alternative is to create an archive containing the <filepath>test_report.xml</filepath>,
        <filepath>test_report.css</filepath> and <filepath>test_report.xsd</filepath> and send it to
      the content authors.</p>
  </conbody>
</concept>