<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept id="dg-xpath-function">
  <title><codeph>oxy_xpath()</codeph> Function</title>
  <shortdesc>This function is used to evaluate XPath expressions.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>CSS extensions<indexterm>Custom
            functions<indexterm>oxy_xpath</indexterm></indexterm>
        </indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <p>The <codeph>oxy_xpath()</codeph> function has the following signature:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
          <syntaxdiagram>
            <groupseq>
              <kwd>oxy_xpath</kwd>
              <sep>(</sep>
              <kwd>XPathExpression</kwd>
              <sep>[,</sep>
              <kwd>processChangeMarkers</kwd>
              <sep>,</sep>
              <kwd>value</kwd>
              <sep>]</sep>
              <sep>[,</sep>
              <kwd>evaluate</kwd>
              <sep>,</sep>
              <kwd>value</kwd>
              <sep>])</sep>
            </groupseq>
          </syntaxdiagram>
        </p>
        <p>It evaluates the given XPath 2.0 expression using Saxon 9 and returns the result. XPath
          expressions that depend on the cursor location can be successfully evaluated only when the
          cursor is located in the actual XML content. Evaluation fails when the current editing
          context is inside a referenced <b>xi:include</b> section or inside artificially referenced
          content (for example, DITA <codeph>conref</codeph> or <codeph>topicref</codeph>
          references).</p>
        <p>The parameters of the function are as follows: <ul id="ul_g4l_r5j_4r">
            <li>A required <keyword>expression</keyword> parameter, which is the XPath expression to
              be evaluated.</li>
            <li>An optional <codeph>processChangeMarkers</codeph> parameter, followed by its value,
              which can be either <codeph>true</codeph> or <codeph>false</codeph> (default value).
              When you set the parameter to <codeph>true</codeph>, the function returns the
              resulting text with all the change markers accepted (<i>delete</i> changes are removed
              and <i>insert</i> changes are preserved). </li>
            <li>An optional <codeph>evaluate</codeph> parameter, followed by its value, which can be
              one of the following:<ul id="ul_m32_lv3_qr">
                <li><codeph>dynamic</codeph> - Evaluates the XPath each time there are changes in
                  the document.</li>
                <li><codeph>dynamic-once</codeph> - Separately evaluates the XPath for each node
                  that matches the CSS selector. It will not re-evaluate the expression when changes
                  are made to other nodes in the document. This will lead to improved performance,
                  but the displayed content may not be updated to reflect the actual document
                  content.</li>
                <li><codeph>static</codeph> - If the same XPath is evaluated on several nodes, the
                  result for the first evaluation will be used for all other matches. Use this only
                  if the XPath does not contain a relationship with the node on which the CSS
                  property is evaluated. This will lead to improved performance, but the static
                  displayed content may not be updated to reflect the actual document content.</li>
              </ul></li>
          </ul></p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <note>When XPath expressions are evaluated, the entities and <codeph>xi:include</codeph>
      elements are replaced with the actual content that is referenced. For example, consider the
      following code
      snippet:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;article>
  &lt;xi:include href="section1.xml" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"/>
&lt;/article></codeblock>where
        <filepath>section1.xml</filepath> contains the following
      content:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;section>
  &lt;p>Referenced content&lt;/p>
&lt;/section></codeblock>The
      latter will be the actual content in which the XPath expression is executed.</note>
    <p><b><u>Example: <i>oxy_xpath</i> Function</u></b></p>
    <p>The following example counts the number of words from a paragraph (including <xref
        keyref="glossentry_track-changes"><term>tracked changes</term></xref>) and displays the
      result in front of
      it:<codeblock outputclass="language-css">para:before{ 
  content: 
   concat("|Number of words:", 
    oxy_xpath(
        "count(tokenize(normalize-space(string-join(text(), '')), ' '))",
        processChangeMarkers,
       true),
    "| "); 
}</codeblock></p>
  </conbody>
</concept>
