<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="form-controls">
  <title>Form Controls</title>
  <!--Proofed-->
  <shortdesc><ph keyref="product"/> provides a variety of built-in form controls that allow users to
    interact with documents with familiar user interface objects.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Built-in Form Controls <indexterm>built-in form controls</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> provides the following built-in form controls:<ul
        id="built-in-form-controls-ul">
        <li><xref href="text-field-editor.dita"><ph>Text Field</ph></xref> - A graphical user
          interface box that allows you to enter a single line of text.</li>
        <li><xref href="combo-box-editor.dita"><ph>Combo Box</ph></xref> - A graphical user
          interface object that can be a drop-down menu or a combination of a drop-down menu and a
          single-line text field.</li>
        <li><xref href="check-box-editor.dita"><ph>Check Box</ph></xref> - A graphical user
          interface box that you can click to select or deselect a value.</li>
        <li><xref href="pop-up-editor.dita"><ph>Pop-up</ph></xref> - A contextual menu that provides
          quick access to various actions.</li>
        <li><xref href="button-editor.dita"><ph>Button</ph></xref> - A graphical user interface
          object that performs a specific action.</li>
        <li><xref href="../topics/button-group-editor.dita"><ph>Button Group</ph></xref> - A
          graphical user interface group of buttons (such as radio buttons) that perform specific
          actions.</li>
        <li><xref href="../topics/dg-text-area-form-control.dita"><ph>Text Area</ph></xref> - A box
          that allows you to enter multiple lines of text.</li>
        <li><xref href="url-chooser-editor.dita"><ph>URL Chooser</ph></xref> - A dialog box that
          allows you to select the location of local or remote resources.</li>
        <li><xref href="date-picker-editor.dita"><ph>Date Picker</ph></xref> - A form control object
          that allows you to select a date in a specified format.</li>
        <li><xref href="../topics/html-content-form-control.dita"><ph>HTML Content</ph></xref> - A
          graphical user interface box that is used for rendering HTML content.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>For customization purposes, <ph keyref="product"/> also supports <xref
        href="../topics/implementing-custom-form-controls.dita#implementing-custom-form-controls"
          ><ph>custom form controls in Java</ph></xref>.</p>
    <p>To watch our video demonstration in regards to form controls, go to <xref
        href="http://oxygenxml.com/demo/Form_Controls.html" format="html" scope="external"/>.</p>
  </conbody>
  <related-links>
    <link
      href="../topics/api_faq_add_form_control_from_filter.dita#api-faq-add-form-control-from-filter"
    />
  </related-links>
</concept>
