<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept id="oxygen-processing-instruction">
    <title>The <codeph>xml-model</codeph> Processing Instruction</title>
    <conbody>
        <p>The <codeph>xml-model</codeph> processing instruction associates a schema with the XML
            document that contains the processing instruction. It must be added at the beginning of
            the document, just after the XML prologue. The following code snippet contains an
                <codeph>xml-model</codeph> processing instruction declaration:</p>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;?xml-model href="../schema.sch" type="application/xml" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron" phase="ALL" title="Main schema"?&gt;</codeblock>
        <p>It is available in the <xref
        href="../topics/streamline-with-content-completion.dita#streamline-with-content-completion"
        format="dita">Content Completion Assistant</xref>, before XML document root element and has
      the following attributes:</p>
        <ul>
            <li><codeph>href</codeph> - schema file location. Mandatory attribute.</li>
            <li><codeph>type</codeph> - content type of schema. Optional attribute with the
                following possible values:<ul>
                    <li>for DTD the recommended value is <codeph>application/xml-dtd</codeph>;</li>
                    <li>for W3C XML Schema the recommended value is <codeph>application/xml</codeph>
                        or can be left unspecified;</li>
                    <li>for RELAX NG the recommended value is <codeph>application/xml</codeph> or
                        can be left unspecified;</li>
                    <li>for RELAX NG - compact syntax the recommended value is
                            <codeph>application/relax-ng-compact-syntax</codeph>;</li>
                    <li>for Schematron the recommended value is <codeph>application/xml</codeph> or
                        can be left unspecified;</li>
                    <li>for NVDL the recommended value is <codeph>application/xml</codeph> or can be
                        left unspecified.</li>
                </ul></li>
            <li><codeph>schematypens</codeph> - namespace of schema language of referenced schema
                with the following possible values:<ul>
                    <li>for DTD - not specified;</li>
                    <li>for W3C XML Schema the recommended value is
                            <codeph>http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema</codeph>;</li>
                    <li>for RELAX NG the recommended value is
                            <codeph>http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0</codeph>;</li>
                    <li>for RELAX NG - not specified;</li>
                    <li>for Schematron the recommended value is
                            <codeph>http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron</codeph>;</li>
                    <li>for NVDL the recommended value is
                            <codeph>http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/nvdl/ns/structure/1.0</codeph>.</li>
                </ul></li>
            <li><codeph>phase</codeph> - phase name of validation function in Schematron schema.
                Optional attribute.</li>
            <li><codeph>title</codeph> - title for associated schema. Optional attribute.</li>
        </ul>
        <p>Older versions of  <ph keyref="product"/> used the <codeph>oxygen</codeph> processing instruction
            with the following attributes:</p>
        <ul>
            <li><codeph>RNGSchema</codeph> - specifies the path to the Relax NG schema associated
                with the current document;</li>
            <li><codeph>type</codeph> - specifies the type of Relax NG schema. It is used together
                with the RNGSchema attribute and can have the value "xml" or "compact";</li>
            <li><codeph>NVDLSchema</codeph> - specifies the path to the NVDL schema associated with
                the current document;</li>
            <li><codeph>SCHSchema</codeph> - specifies the path to the SCH schema associated with
                the current document.</li>
        </ul>
        <note>Documents that use the <codeph>oxygen</codeph> processing instruction are compatible
            with newer versions of <ph
                keyref="product"/>.</note>
    </conbody>
</concept>
