<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept id="selection-plugin">
  <title>Selection Plugin Extension</title>
  <shortdesc>This type of <xref keyref="glossentry_plugin"><term>plugin</term></xref> allows you to
    manage selections of text.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Plugin extensions<indexterm>Selection</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Selection plugin extension</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <p>A <b>selection</b>
      <term>plugin</term> can be applied to both XML and non-XML documents. The <term>plugin</term>
      is started by making a selection in the editor, then selecting the corresponding menu item
      from the <uicontrol>Plugins</uicontrol> submenu in the contextual menu of
        <uicontrol>Text</uicontrol> mode.</p>
    <p>This <term>plugin</term> type provides the following API:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>The interface <apiname>SelectionPluginExtension</apiname> - The context containing the
        selected text is passed to the extension and the processed result is going to replace the
        initial selection. The <apiname>process(GeneralPluginContext)</apiname> method must return a
          <apiname>SelectionPluginResult</apiname> object that contains the result of the
        processing. The <apiname>String</apiname> value returned by the
          <apiname>SelectionPluginResult</apiname> object can include editor variables such as
          <i>${caret}</i> and <i>${selection}</i>.</li>
      <li>The <apiname>SelectionPluginContext</apiname> object represents the context. It provides
        four methods: <ul>
          <li><apiname>getSelection()</apiname> - Returns a <codeph>String</codeph> that is the
            current selection of text.</li>
          <li><apiname>getFrame()</apiname> - Returns a <codeph>Frame</codeph> that is the editing
            frame.</li>
          <li><apiname>getPluginWorkspace()</apiname> - Returns access to the workspace of <ph
              keyref="product"/>.</li>
          <li><apiname>getDocumentURL()</apiname> - Returns the URL of the current edited
            document.</li>
        </ul></li>
    </ul>
  </conbody>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="../topics/editor-variables.dita#editor-variables"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</concept>
