<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept id="transformation-scenario">
  <title>Transformation Scenario</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>Transforming Documents<indexterm>transformation scenario</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>Transformation Scenario</indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <p>A transformation scenario is a set of complex operations and settings that gives you the
      possibility to obtain outputs of multiple types (XML, HTML, PDF, EPUB, and others) from the
      same source of XML files and stylesheets. </p>
    <p>Executing a transformation scenario implies multiple actions, such as:<ul>
        <li>validating the input file;</li>
        <li>obtaining intermediate output files (for example formatting objects for the XML to PDF
          transformation);</li>
        <li>using transformation engines to produce the output.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>Before transforming an XML document in <ph
        keyref="product"/>, define a
      transformation scenario to apply to that document. A scenario is a set of values for various
      parameters defining a transformation. It is not related to any particular document but to a
      document type:</p>
    <ul>
      <li><b>Scenarios that apply to XML files</b> - Such a scenario contains the location of an
        XSLT stylesheet that is applied on the edited XML document and other transform
        parameters.</li>
      <li><b>Scenarios that apply to XSLT files</b> - Such a scenario contains the location of an
        XML document that the edited XSLT stylesheet is applied on and other transform
        parameters.</li>
      <li><b>Scenarios that apply to XQuery files</b> - Such a scenario contains the location of an
        XML source that the edited XQuery file is applied on and other transform parameters. When
        the XML source is a native XML database the XML source field of the scenario is empty
        because the XML data is read with XQuery specific functions like
          <apiname>document()</apiname>. When the XML source is a local XML file, the URL of the
        file is specified in the XML input field of the scenario.</li>
      <li><b>Scenarios that apply to SQL files</b> - Such a scenario specifies a database connection
        for the database server that runs the SQL file associated with the scenario. The data
        processed by the SQL script is located in the database.</li>
      <li><b>Scenarios that apply to XProc files</b> - Such a scenario contains the location of an
        XProc script and other transform parameters.</li>
      <li><b>DITA-OT scenarios</b> - Such a scenario provides the parameters for an Ant
        transformation that executes a DITA-OT build script. <ph
          keyref="product"/> comes with a
        built-in version of Ant and a built-in version of DITA-OT but different versions can be set
        in the scenario.</li>
    </ul>
    <p>
      <note>
        <p product="editor author developer">Status messages generated during the transformation
          process are displayed in the <xref href="../topics/view-status-information.dita"
              ><uicontrol>Information</uicontrol> view</xref>.</p>
        <p product="editorEclipse authorEclipse developerEclipse">Status messages generated during
          the transformation process are displayed in the <xref
            href="../topics/view-status-information.dita"><uicontrol>Console</uicontrol>
          view</xref>.</p>
      </note>
    </p>
  </conbody>
</concept>