<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_ycq_pzd_yr">
  <title>What new API Oxygen 17.0 brings for customizers</title>
  <body>
    <p>I am happy to announce that the new oXygen XML Editor version 17 is finally available from
      our website: <xref href="http://www.oxygenxml.com" format="html" scope="external"/>. We have
      added a lot of new goodies to <b>Oxygen</b> 17 and we will have a series of webinars which
      will cover most of it:<xref href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/events_programme.html"
        format="html" scope="external"/>.</p>
    <p>We have many users who use Oxygen as it is but we also have developers who customize Oxygen
      for certain target user groups.</p>
    <p>The <b>WebApp SDK</b> is a new product we offer as an alternative for our Java-based
        <b>Author Component</b>:<xref href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/webapp/" format="html"
        scope="external"/>
    </p>
    <p>It allows you to embed visual XML editing in a web browser on any platform (<b>phone</b>,
        <b>tablet</b> or <b>desktop</b>). The <b>SDK</b> was extended to provide an adaptive user
      interface that is both desktop-friendly and mobile-friendly and also contains out of the box
      WebDav support. Custom actions are made available in a toolbar and there are many API
      extension points that facilitate repository integration.  </p>
    <p>You can register here for a Webinar about authoring on the web (Jun 17, 2015):<xref
        href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/events/2015/webinar_xml_authoring_on_web.html" format="html"
        scope="external"/> and a full list of planned webinars about the Oxygen 17.0 capabilities
      can be found here: <xref href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/events_programme.html" format="html"
        scope="external"/>. </p>
    <p>As usual we also added lots of API for the standalone and Eclipse plugin integrations:<xref
        href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/whatisnew17.0.html#17.0API" format="html" scope="external"/>
    </p>
    <ul id="ul_gnr_g12_yr">
      <li>You can add a specific listener for dropped resources in the DITA Maps Manager and
        customize the insertion behavior. </li>
      <li>In the Eclipse plugin you can now fully control the contextual menus, the Author main menu
        and the Author toolbar using only extension points. </li>
      <li>You can also easily provide from a framework configuration documentation and controlled
        values for XML elements without any kind of Java customization: <ul id="ul_gt5_h12_yr">
          <li><xref
              href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-oxygen/#tasks/author-styleguide-annotations.html"
              format="html" scope="external"/></li>
        </ul><ul id="ul_rgm_312_yr">
          <li><xref
              href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-oxygen/#topics/configuring-content-completion-proposals.html"
              format="html" scope="external"/></li>
        </ul></li>
      <li>
        <p>For the Author visual editing mode we added API to expand/collapse folds, customize the
          actions contributed for each callout or obtaining attribute track changes. You can now
          also use the Java-based API to decide the default CSS used for rendering and to provide
          alternate CSSs.</p>
        <p>But more important, we also made available a custom action called <xref
            href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-oxygen/#topics/dg-default-author-operations.html"
            format="html" scope="external"
              ><b>ro.sync.ecss.extensions.commons.operations.JSOperation</b></xref>. Using the
          available <b>Rhyno</b> library this operation can run Javascript code which can fully use
          our <b>Java API</b> or create and display <b>Swing</b> graphical components directly in
          the <b>Javascript</b> code. So you could implement the entire set of custom Author actions
          for your custom framework without using Javascript at all. </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>Thank you again for your feedback on oXygen and enjoy using version 17!</p>
  </body>
</topic>
