<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_ufq_zd5_tt">
  <title>DITA-related improvements and goodies in Oxygen 17.1 </title>
  <body>
    <p>I'm happy to announce this autumn the release of Oxygen 17.1. We've been quite buzy in the
      last months working on it and we hope you'll enjoy it in your daily XML-related
      activities.</p>
    <p>Oxygen 17.1 comes with official support for the latest operating systems, Windows 10 and Mac
      OSX OS X El Capitan (10.11). </p>
    <p>It also comes with a new user interface color theme called "Light" that makes the entire
      application interface look crisp and clean. Besides this, you now have the support to define
      custom color themes and share them with your team. </p>
    <p>As always we also have lots of DITA-related improvements: <ol id="ol_qkj_c25_tt">
        <li>The dialogs for inserting conkeyrefs, conrefs and keyrefs to metadata have all been
          merged in one intuitive to use toolbar action called "Reuse content". </li>
        <li> The dialog used to insert or to edit properties for a topic reference now also allows
          you to: <ol id="ol_opg_d25_tt">
            <li>Set profiling attributes. </li>
            <li>Define metadata content.</li>
            <li>Set any other valid attribute on the topic reference. </li>
          </ol></li>
        <li>Experimental support for DITA 1.3. You can enable DITA 1.3 support (using the latest
          DITA Open Toolkit 2.1.2 bundled with the application) from the "Preferences->DITA" page.
          This support includes support for editing and validation, scoped keys and branch
            filtering.<ol id="ol_qr3_g25_tt">
            <li>Scoped Keys Support. You can establish key scopes and insert references to keys
              inside or outside key scopes. oXygen will also takes key scopes into account when it
              validates and checks for completeness, resolves key and content key references, and
              publishes.</li>
            <li>Branch Filtering Support. The DITA 1.3 branch filtering mechanism makes it possible
              to reuse the content of topics multiple times within the same map, each time using
              different filters.</li>
          </ol><p>You can find out more about DITA 1.3 support from our user's manual: </p><p><xref
              href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/17.1/ug-editor/#topics/dita1-3-support.html"
              type="topic" format="html" scope="external"/>
          </p><p>or by watching this video demo: </p><p><xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/demo/DITA_13.html" type="topic" format="html"
              scope="external"/>
          </p></li>
        <li>The oXygen WebHelp system was also improved to enhance your published output. Google
          Search, Google Analytics, and some popular social media widgets can now be integrated into
          your WebHelp system and search features are now available in offline mode.</li>
        <li>Oxygen 17.1 comes bundled with an <xref
            href="https://github.com/jelovirt/com.elovirta.ooxml" type="topic" format="html"
            scope="external">experimental new plugin</xref> developed by <xref
            href="https://github.com/jelovirt" type="topic" format="html" scope="external">Jarno
            Elovirta</xref> for generating MS Word output (OOXML) from DITA content.</li>
        <li> Once you decide in the "Preferences->DITA" page to use the bundled DITA Open Toolkit
          2.1.2, you will also enable the ability to create Lightweight DITA topics and maps so you
          can experiment with this exciting new standard in the making: <xref
            href="http://dita.xml.org/blog/lightweight-dita" type="topic" format="html"
            scope="external"/>.</li>
      </ol></p>
  </body>
</topic>
