<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_ktv_xv1_chb">
    <title>Adding support for embedding Latex equations in DITA content</title>
    <body>
        <p>LaTeX is a high-quality typesetting system; it includes features designed for the
            production of technical and scientific documentation. And LaTeX can also be used to
            express mathematical formulas in a textual format. By default web browsers and PDF
            readers do not have support to show mathematical equations written in LaTeX but there
            are open source projects which can read LaTeX and convert it to other images types. </p>
        <p>Adding support for writing LaTeX equations in DITA topics would imply three stages:<ul
                id="ul_kcm_jw1_chb">
                <li>Find a way to write the equation in the DITA XML content. You can either create
                    a DITA DTD specialization and add a new element called for example
                        <xmlelement>latex</xmlelement> which extends the DITA
                        <xmlelement>foreign</xmlelement> element. Or you can use directly the DITA
                        <xmlelement>foreign</xmlelement> element with a specific
                        <xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt> attribute value:
                    <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
&lt;topic id="testEquation">
    &lt;title>Test equation&lt;/title>
    &lt;body>
        &lt;p>&lt;foreign outputclass="embed-latex">L' = {L}{\sqrt{1-\frac{v^2}{c^2}}}&lt;/foreign>&lt;/p>
    &lt;/body>
&lt;/topic></codeblock></li>
                <li> If you want Oxygen to properly present the LaTex equation when editing in the
                        <b>Author</b> visual mode you need an Oxygen plugin which converts the
                    equation content to an image. There is a sample plugin here which does that:
                        <xref
                        href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/wsaccess-javascript-sample-plugins/tree/master/latex-images-support"
                        format="html" scope="external"/>. You can download and copy the plugin
                    folder <b>latex-images-support</b> to the Oxygen <b>plugins</b> folder, then
                    restart Oxygen.</li>
                <li>Publishing to HTML-based and PDF outputs. This DITA Open Toolkit plugin
                    automatically converts LaTeX images to SVG when publishing: <xref
                        href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-latex" format="html"
                        scope="external"/>.</li>
            </ul></p>
    </body>
</topic>
