<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="author-document-type-sharing">
  <title>Sharing New Custom File Templates for a Specific Vocabulary</title>
  <body>
    <p>The support <b>Oxygen</b> provides for editing <b>DITA</b> topics comes with quite an
      extensive set of new file templates used to create new DITA topic types. If you have a team of
      writers, you may want to filter out certain new file templates or add your custom new file
      templates, then share these custom templates with your team members.</p>
    <p>This blog post will attempt to give you some clear steps for sharing a custom set of new file
      templates with your team.</p>
    <p>All the original <b>DITA</b> new topic templates are located in the folder:
        <filepath>OXYGEN_INSTALL_DIR\frameworks\dita\templates</filepath>. </p>
    <p>Instead of making changes directly to that folder, copying the entire <b>DITA</b> framework
      configuration folder (like <filepath>OXYGEN_INSTALL_DIR\frameworks\dita</filepath>), modifying
      and distributing it you can choose to extend the <b>DITA</b> framework and distribute the
      extension. In this way, you will benefit of new functionality added to the base framework by
      newer Oxygen versions and still use your customizations.</p>
    <p>The steps below describe how an extension of the <b>DITA</b> framework which adds a custom
      set of new file templates can be constructed and shared:<ol id="ol_om1_xzp_zs">
        <li>Create somewhere on your disk, in a place where you have full write access a folder
          structure like: <filepath>custom_frameworks/dita-extension</filepath>. </li>
        <li>In that new folder structure create another folder
            <filepath>custom_frameworks/dita-extension/templates</filepath> which will contain all
          your custom new topic templates.</li>
        <li>In the <uicontrol>Document Type Association / Locations</uicontrol> preferences page add
          in your <uicontrol>Additional frameworks directories</uicontrol> list the path to your
            <filepath>custom_frameworks</filepath> folder. Click <b>OK</b> or <b>Apply</b> in the
            <b>Preferences</b> dialog to save your changes.</li>
        <li>In the <uicontrol>Document Type Association</uicontrol> preferences page select the
            <uicontrol>DITA</uicontrol> document type configuration and use the
            <uicontrol>Extend</uicontrol> button to create an extension for it.</li>
        <li>Give a custom name to the extension, for example <uicontrol>DITA - Custom</uicontrol>
          and then change its <uicontrol>Storage</uicontrol> to external, then save it to a path
          like:
            <filepath>path/to/.../custom_frameworks/dita-extension/dita-extension.framework</filepath>.</li>
        <li>Make changes to the extension, go to the <b>Templates</b> tab, remove all previous
          entries from it and add a new entry pointing to your custom templates folder:
            <filepath>${frameworkDir}/templates</filepath>.</li>
        <li>Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> to close the dialog and then either
            <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> or <uicontrol>Apply</uicontrol> to save the preferences
          changes.</li>
      </ol></p>
    <p>After you perform the steps above you will have in the <filepath>dita-extension</filepath>
      folder a fully functioning framework extension which can be shared with others.</p>
    <p>The framework can then be shared with others in several ways:<ul id="ul_nsg_zbq_zs">
        <li>Copy it to their <filepath>[OXYGEN_DIR]/frameworks</filepath> directory. </li>
        <li>Create somewhere on disk a <filepath>custom_frameworks</filepath> folder, copy the
          framework there and then from the <uicontrol>Document Type Association /
            Locations</uicontrol> preferences page add in your <uicontrol>Additional frameworks
            directories</uicontrol> list the path to the <filepath>custom_frameworks</filepath>
          folder.</li>
        <li>
          <p>Distribute the framework along with a project.</p>
          <p> Follow these steps:<ol id="ol_h4n_vpi_5m">
              <li>On your local drive, create a directory with full write access, containing the
                project files and a <filepath>custom_frameworks</filepath> folder containing your
                  <filepath>dita-extension</filepath> framework.</li>
              <li>Start the application, go to the <xref
                  href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/17.0/ug-editor/#topics/using-the-project-view.html"
                  format="html" scope="external"><uicontrol>Project</uicontrol> view</xref> and
                create a project. Save it in the newly created directory.</li>
              <li>In the <uicontrol>Document Type Association / Locations</uicontrol> preferences
                page, select <b>Project Options</b> at the bottom of the page.</li>
              <li>Add in the additional framework directories list an entry like
                  <filepath>${pd}/custom_frameworks</filepath>.</li>
              <li>Add other resources to your project, for example you can have all your DITA
                content located inside the project folder.</li>
              <li>You can then share the new project directory with other users. For example you can
                commit it to your version control system and have they update their working copy.
                When they open the customized project file in the <xref
                  href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/17.0/ug-editor/#topics/using-the-project-view.html"
                  format="html" scope="external"><uicontrol>Project</uicontrol> view</xref>, the new
                document type becomes available in the list of Document Types.</li>
            </ol></p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Deploy the framework/document type configuration <xref
              href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/17.0/ug-editor/#topics/packing-and-deploying-addons.html"
              format="html" scope="external">as an add-on</xref>.</p>
        </li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>After your team members install the framework they can check in <uicontrol>Document Type
        Association</uicontrol> preferences page in the list of Document Types to see if the
      framework is present and if it appears before the bundled <uicontrol>DITA</uicontrol>
      framework (meaning that it has higher priority).</p>
    <p>You can use the framework extension mechanism to customize lots of aspects of the <b>DITA</b>
      functionality in Oxygen. For example you can remove various elements from the content
      completion list: <xref
        href="http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2015/08/document-type-extension-sharing.html" format="html"
        scope="external"/>.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
