<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="author-document-type-sharing">
  <title>Document Type Extension Sharing</title>
  <body>
    <p>Instead of copying an entire framework configuration folder  (like <b>DITA</b> or
        <b>Docbook</b>), modify and distribute it you can choose to extend that framework and
      distribute the extension. In this way, you will benefit of new functionality added to the base
      framework by newer Oxygen versions and still use your customizations.</p>
    <p>The steps below describe how an extension of the <b>DITA</b> framework which removes certain
      elements from the content completion list can be constructed and shared:<ol id="ol_om1_xzp_zs">
        <li>Create somewhere on your disk, in a place where you have full write access a folder
          structure like: <filepath>custom_frameworks/dita-extension</filepath>. </li>
        <li>In the <b>Document Type Association / Locations</b> preferences page add
          in your <b>Additional frameworks directories</b> list the path to your
            <filepath>custom_frameworks</filepath> folder. Click <b>OK</b> or <b>Apply</b> in the
            <b>Preferences</b> dialog to save your changes.</li>
        <li>In the <b>Document Type Association</b> preferences page select the
            <b>DITA</b> document type configuration and use the
            <b>Extend</b> button to create an extension for it.</li>
        <li>Give a custom name to the extension, for example <b>DITA - Custom</b> and
          then change its <b>Storage</b> to external, then save it to a path like:
            <filepath>path/to/.../custom_frameworks/dita-extension/dita-extension.framework</filepath>.</li>
        <li>Make changes to the extension, for example go to the <b>Author->Content
            completion</b> tab and add in the <b>Filter - Remove content completion
            items</b> list elements which should not be presented to the end users.</li>
        <li>Click <b>OK</b> to close the dialog and then either
            <b>OK</b> or <b>Apply</b> to save the preferences
          changes.</li>
      </ol></p>
    <p>After you perform the steps above you will have in the <filepath>dita-extension</filepath>
      folder a fully functioning framework which can be shared with others.</p>
    <p>The framework can then be shared with others in several ways:<ul id="ul_nsg_zbq_zs">
        <li>Copy it to their <filepath>[OXYGEN_DIR]/frameworks</filepath> directory. </li>
        <li>Create somewhere on disk a <filepath>custom_frameworks</filepath> folder, copy the
          framework there and then from the <b>Document Type Association /
            Locations</b> preferences page add in your <b>Additional frameworks
            directories</b> list the path to the <filepath>custom_frameworks</filepath>
          folder.</li>
        <li product="author developer editor">
          <p>Distribute the framework along with a project.</p>
          <p> Follow these steps:<ol id="ol_h4n_vpi_5m">
              <li>On your local drive, create a directory with full write access, containing the
                project files and a <filepath>custom_frameworks</filepath> folder containing your
                  <filepath>dita-extension</filepath>.</li>
              <li>Start the application, go to the <xref
                  href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/17.0/ug-editor/#topics/using-the-project-view.html"
                  format="html" scope="external"><b>Project</b> view</xref> and
                create a project. Save it in the newly created directory.</li>
              <li>In the <b>Document Type Association / Locations</b> preferences
                page, select <b>Project Options</b> at the bottom of the page.</li>
              <li>Add in the additional framework directories list an entry like
                  <filepath>${pd}/custom_frameworks</filepath>.</li>
              <li>Add other resources to your project, for example you can have all your DITA
                content located inside the project folder.</li>
              <li>You can then share the new project directory with other users. For example you can
                commit it to your version control system and have they update their working copy.
                When they open the customized project file in the <xref
                  href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/17.0/ug-editor/#topics/using-the-project-view.html"
                  format="html" scope="external"><b>Project</b> view</xref>, the new
                document type becomes available in the list of Document Types.</li>
            </ol></p>
        </li>
        <li product="author developer editor">
          <p>Deploy the framework/document type configuration <xref
              href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/17.0/ug-editor/#topics/packing-and-deploying-addons.html"
              format="html" scope="external">as an add-on</xref>.</p>
        </li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>After your team members install the framework they can check in <b>Document Type
        Association</b> preferences page in the list of Document Types to see if the
      framework is present and if it appears before the bundled <b>DITA</b>
      framework (meaning that it has higher priority).</p>
  </body>
</topic>
