<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_fcp_kcq_jp">
  <title>Cool Stuff to Look for in future DITA OT publishing</title>
  <body>
    <p>First of all a big <b>thank you</b> to all you Oxygen XML users who have been from the very
      beginning the driving force behind many of the improvements we have added into the
      application. </p>
    <p>In my opinion of all the people who try an application for the first time only a few of them
      will ever bother to write to the application's producers and give feedback about things which
      do not properly work. Most of them probably suffer in silence and maybe end up abandoning the
      application alltogether. So feedback received from people using a trial license of Oxygen and
      who still bother to report a problem instead of giving up is quite valuable and we are
      grateful for it.</p>
    <p>We have many Oxygen DITA users and this leads to many requests to improve the DITA Open
      Toolkit publishing. Our policy so far has been to contribute these improvement suggestions
      back to the DITA Open Toolkit so that they benefit others as well. Also we should all be
      grateful to <xref href="http://www.elovirta.com/" format="html" scope="external">Jarno
        Elovirta</xref>, the main DITA OT contributor, guru and developer who makes all of this
      possible for all of us. </p>
    <p>So here are some of the DITA publishing improvements I'm looking forward to see in the
        future:<ol id="ol_dhm_1tq_jp">
        <li>The <b>Oxygen</b> team is actively working on a <b>DITA Open Toolkit</b> plugin which
          will use <b>CSS</b> to render <b>PDF</b> output from DITA content. The plugin could be
          used with commercial rendering engines like <b>Prince XML</b> and <b>Antenna House</b>
          which support obtaining <b>PDF</b> from <b>XML</b> and <b>CSS</b>. Initially the plugin
          will provide support only for the <b>Prince XML</b> engine  This would mean that most
            <b>PDF</b> customizations which are currently being done using <b>XSLT</b> could instead
          be done via <b>CSS</b> styling which is far easier for users who are not experienced XSLT
          developers. I will present the general architecture of the plugin on the <xref
            href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/events/2014/dita-ot_day.html" format="html"
            scope="external">DITA OT Day</xref> in Munich this year. And if it proves to be
          succesfull we are willing to make this plugin available as an open source project or part
          of a future <b>DITA OT</b> distribution. Oxygen 16.1 which will be released in a few weeks
          will have an experimental version of the plugin included with its bundled DITA Open
          Toolkit.</li>
        <li><b>DITA Open Toolkit 2.0</b> will probably generate <xref
            href="https://dita-ot.github.io/2.0/readme/dita2html5.html" format="html"
            scope="external">HTML 5 compatible output</xref> by default.</li>
        <li><b>DITA Open Toolkit 2.0</b> will generate the Index page for PDF output even when using
          the Apache FOP processor. The changes are already incorporated in the DITA OT distribution
          which comes with <b>Oxygen</b>, you can also incorportate them quite easily in your DITA
          OT by modifying an XSLT stylesheet: <xref
            href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/1587" format="html" scope="external"
          />.</li>
        <li>Using the <b>DITA Open Toolkit 2.0</b> you will also be able to pass profiling
          attributes and values from the DITA content to the generated HTML content: <xref
            href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1739" format="html" scope="external"/>.
          This means that instead of profiling the content before it is published, you will be able
          to profile it at publishing time by using Javascript to show/hide parts of the content
          depending on the user role for example.</li>
        <li>Besides lots of bug fixes <b>Jarno Elovirta</b> made lots of memory and processor
          optimizations which also will be included in the next <b>DITA Open Toolkit 2.0</b>
          release.</li>
      </ol></p>
    <p>I'm also looking forward for the support for the <b>DITA 1.3</b> specification which will
      slowly begin to be implemented in future <b>DITA Open Toolkit</b> releases.</p>
    <p>So what are your ideas for future DITA OT publishing enhancements?</p>
  </body>
</topic>
