<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_nm2_qq4_lq">
  <title>Oxygen XML Editor 17's Christmas List</title>
  <body>
    <p>Ho, ho, ho. Merry Christmas boys and girls! </p>
    <p>I heard you've been good little children, spreading the XML wisdom throughout the year and
      revealing your inner geeky nature. Santa Oxygen has read your wish lists, assigning priorities
      and is filling his big bag of toys for the version 17 release. As Santa is quite old and the
      toys need to be checked and rectified for defects, Oxygen 17 will arrive in Spring next year
      but if you want to test the latest toys, just drop us an email and we'll make a beta kit
      available for you.</p>
    <p>Just to help you get into the Christmas spirit, here are some of the goodies we've worked on
      so far:<ol id="ol_hpz_hv4_lq">
        <li>The <b>DITA</b> Preferences page. Because we love <b>DITA</b> so much we decided to
          create a brand new <b>DITA</b> page in the Oxygen <b>Preferences</b> dialog. The most
          important setting in the new page allows you to change the default <b>DITA OT</b>
          directory used for validation and transformation.</li>
        <li>DITA <b>Unreferenced Resources Finder</b>. Use this handy new tool to find all resources
          (images, DITA topics) which are not referenced from your DITA Maps and topics. We've been
          using this check internally for years to delete unnecessary resources and now we are
          making it available for you.</li>
        <li>Publish <b>DITA</b> content to <b>PDF</b> using <b>CSS</b> and the <b>Prince XML</b>
          commercial processor. The first stable version of the new DITA Open Toolkit plugin we've
          also <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-css" format="html" scope="external"
            >made public on GitHub</xref> will allow you to style PDF content by making CSS changes
          and avoid a lot of <b>XSLT</b> customizations.</li>
        <li>Fully re-designed <b>DITA</b> visual editing experience. Our head elf has been revising
          every element in the <b>DITA</b> specification and completely redesigned the CSSs used to
          edit <b>DITA</b> based on minimalism and closeness to the published <b>XHTML</b> and
            <b>PDF</b> outputs.</li>
        <li><b>CSS</b> visual layouts for <b>DITA</b> editing. Besides the minimalist editing style
          you will be able to use the <b>Styles</b> drop-down to choose from a number of fun editing
          layouts. I'm not going to ruin the surprise, as an inside info, one of the new editing
          styles will be called <b>Roboto</b>.</li>
        <li><b>WebHelp</b> output improvements. The <b>WebHelp</b> output obtained from <b>DITA</b>
          and <b>Docbook</b> content will have the search box which placed in the upper right corner
          for easier access. It will also feature navigation based on context IDs in order to be
          more easily integrated in an application contextual help system. And yes, it will also
          load faster.</li>
        <li>Predefined <b>Color Themes</b>. Speaking of enhanced visual appearance, you will have an
          array of predefined color schemes to choose in order to completely change the visual
          appearance of the application, starting with <b>Graphite</b> and ending with the exotic
            <b>Sahara</b>.</li>
        <li>Locking for <b>shared files</b>. Despite our recommendations of using <xref
            href="http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2013/12/collaboration-teams-working-on-common.html"
            format="html" scope="external">version control systems</xref> or commercial CMSs, some
          of you are still naughty enough to collaborate on a project using shared network drives.
          We added a special setting (which <b>must</b> be enabled for everybody working on a shared
          network drive) to avoid overwriting other people's work when editing.</li>
        <li><b>Saxon 9.6</b> XSLT Processor. Oxygen 17 will be shipped with the latest <xref
            href="http://www.saxonica.com/products/latest.xml" scope="external" format="html">Saxon
            9.6 XSLT processor</xref>. So if you're into XSLT, XPath and XQuery 3.0, this will be a
          good component update for you.</li>
      </ol></p>
    <p>The bag is almost full now but if time allows we might also have the time to look into adding
      these new toys as well:<ol id="ol_otp_rkp_lq">
        <li>Better support for working with <b>multiple selected cells</b> in tables. Like support
          for multiple join and split cells, support for copy pasting of multiple cells.</li>
        <li><b>Auto correct</b> support. Even Santa would find those useful to avoid teh most common
          editing mstakes when working on this Christmas list. Both in the Text and Author pages? I
          would like to have both. How about you?</li>
        <li><b>Toolbar Customization</b> support. We finally want to allow you to remove the access
          and create the perfect toolbar layout, with only the buttons you need and use daily.</li>
        <li><b>Apply Batch Changes</b> on a set of resources. A powerful engine based on
            <b>XQuery</b> will allow you to chose various change scripts to apply on a set of
          resources. For example remove certain attributes, add new elements and attributes, convert
          elements and so on. And if you are a power user, you will be able to edit your change
          scripts directly in <b>XQuery</b>.</li>
        <li>Redesigned DITA <b>Insert Image</b> actions. The newly redesigned <b>Insert Image</b>
          dialog should allow you to set the most common used attributes on an image like alignment,
          scaling, even to add directly a figure.</li>
        <li>Proper support for <b>high DPI</b> resolutions both on <b>Windows</b> and <b>Mac
          OSX</b>.</li>
      </ol></p>
    <p>Well, that's about it. Santa's got to go and re-watch his favorite <xref
        href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/events/2014/dita-ot_day.html" format="html" scope="external"
        >DITA OT Day Presentations</xref> then prepare for the upcoming XML Prague <xref
        href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/events/2015/oXygen-user-meetup-Prague.html" format="html"
        scope="external">Oxygen Users Meetup Conference</xref> which is still opened for
      registration. The Oxygen office Christmas Party takes place tonight and I heard there will be
      lots of food and good spirits. </p>
    <p>Happy holidays everyone. Ho, ho ho!</p>
  </body>
</topic>
