<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="dita_publishing_customization_overview">
  <title>DITA Publishing Customization Overview</title>
  <body>
    <p><b>Oxygen XML Editor</b> publishes <b>DITA</b> content to various output sources using a
      bundled version of the <xref href="https://www.dita-ot.org/" format="html" scope="external"
        >DITA Open Toolkit</xref> (short name: <b>DITA OT</b>) publishing engine. Oxygen versions
      prior to version 20 come with two <b>DITA OT</b> versions:<ul id="ul_yvl_f3n_hdb">
        <li><b>DITA OT 1.8</b> located in the <i>OXYGEN_INSTALL_DIR\frameworks\dita\DITA-OT</i>
          folder.</li>
        <li><b>DITA OT 2.x</b> located in the <i>OXYGEN_INSTALL_DIR\frameworks\dita\DITA-OT2.x</i>
          folder.</li>
      </ul>while Oxygen version 20 comes bundled only with <b>DITA OT 2.x</b> located in the folder
      specified above. You can find the exact version of DITA OT bundled with Oxygen by looking in
      the main menu <b>Help->About</b> at the <b>Frameworks</b> tab.</p>
    <section id="section_kss_bjn_hdb">
      <title>DITA Open Toolkit Overview</title>
      <p>The <xref href="https://www.dita-ot.org/" format="html" scope="external">DITA Open
          Toolkit</xref> is an open source publishing engine that can publish <b>DITA</b> content to
        various output sources such as <b>XHTML</b>, <b>PDF</b>, or <b>Windows Help (CHM)</b>. Since
        it has a plugin-based architecture, it can be extended with extra plugins that either define
        new formats for conversion or customize an existing conversion format. You can run the
          <b>DITA OT</b> from Oxygen using its transformation scenarios or you can run it directly
        from a command line:<xref href="http://www.dita-ot.org/dev/topics/building-output.html"
          format="html" scope="external"/>.</p>
      <p>The <b>DITA OT</b> bundled with Oxygen contains more plugins than the standard <b>DITA
          OT</b> that can be downloaded from the DITA OT official web site. For example, it contains
        pre-installed plugins for converting DITA content to Word, EPUB, Oxygen WebHelp, or to
        publish to PDF using CSS to customize the output: <xref
          href="http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2017/03/useful-dita-ot-plugins.html" format="html"
          scope="external"/>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_bzh_wjn_hdb">
      <title>Publishing Customizations (Before you begin)</title>
      <p>Some customizations, usually for HTML-based output, can be made simply by creating a custom
        CSS and they do not involve modifying the <b>DITA OT</b> engine in any way. But most
        customizations might involve adding a new plugin to the <b>DITA OT</b>. So here are some
        best practices before you begin your customization:<ol id="ol_zbw_gkn_hdb">
          <li>Copy the bundled <b>DITA OT</b> folder (usually
              <i>OXYGEN_INSTALL_DIR\frameworks\dita\DITA-OT2.x</i>) to a location outside of Oxygen.
            This will allow you to have full write access to the folder in order to install new
              plugins:<xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/20.0/ug-editor/topics/dita-ot-install-plugin.html"
              format="html" scope="external"/>. </li>
          <li>In the Oxygen <b>Preferences->DITA</b> page, set the default DITA OT distribution to
            be the external copied one. This will mean that Oxygen will use the external <b>DITA
              OT</b> for DITA validation and publishing. After doing this, you will be able to
            upgrade the Oxygen version and benefit from all editing-related improvements without
            affecting the publishing system.</li>
          <li>Share that external <b>DITA OT</b> copy with the rest of the team. If you are using a
            repository like Subversion or Git for <xref
              href="http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2014/11/collaboration-for-documenting-software.html"
              format="html" scope="external">collaboration</xref>, you can commit the entire
            modified DITA OT publishing engine as part of your project. This will allow everybody
            else in your team to use the official changes that you made for publishing an engine
            containing. This will also allow you to set up some kind of automatic publishing system
            using an open-source integration server like <xref href="https://travis-ci.org/"
              format="html" scope="external">Travis</xref>.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_dtx_fmn_hdb">
      <title>Customizing the XHTML-based outputs</title>
      <p>Usually <b>XHTML</b>-based outputs can be modified by using a custom <b>CSS</b> stylesheet
        to override various styles. If you edit an <b>XHTML</b>-based transformation scenario in
        Oxygen, there is a parameter called <b>args.css</b> that can be set to point to your custom
        CSS and a parameter called <b>args.copy.css</b> that can be set to <b>yes</b> to copy the
        CSS to the output folder. To know what CSS styles to override, you can use your web
        browser’s CSS Inspector tools to look at the produced HTML output. The same parameters can
        be set when publishing from a command line: <xref
          href="http://www.dita-ot.org/dev/topics/html-customization-css.html" format="html"
          scope="external"/>.</p>
      <p>You can also create plugins to customize the XHTML-based outputs by adding an extra XSLT
        stylesheet: for example, <xref
          href="http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2013/12/creating-simple-dita-open-toolkit.html"
          format="html" scope="external"/>. A list with all DITA OT XSLT extension points can be
        found here: <xref
          href="http://www.dita-ot.org/dev/extension-points/plugin-extension-points-xslt-import.html"
          format="html" scope="external"/>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_qwg_14n_hdb">
      <title>Customizing the Oxygen WebHelp-based output</title>
      <p>Oxygen’s <b>DITA OT</b> comes bundled with specific plugins developed by Oxygen that allows
        publishing <b>DITA</b> content to <xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/20.0/ug-editor/topics/wh-classic-output-x-2.html"
          format="html" scope="external"><b>WebHelp Classic</b></xref> and <xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/20.0/ug-editor/topics/wh-responsive-output-x-2.html"
          format="html" scope="external"><b>WebHelp Responsive</b></xref> outputs. Oxygen’s User’s
        Guide has detailed topics about how to customize these outputs: <xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/20.0/ug-editor/topics/wh-responsive-customization-tips.html#wh-responsive-customization-tips"
          format="html" scope="external"/>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_jdb_4pn_hdb">
      <title>Customizing the PDF Classic output</title>
      <p>The <b>DITA to PDF</b> output can be customized either by creating a PDF customization
        folder (in this case the DITA OT folder will not be modified at all) or by creating a PDF
        customization plugin: <xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/20.0/ug-editor/topics/dita-pdf-output.html"
          format="html" scope="external"/>. There is also a book called <xref
          href="https://xmlpress.net/publications/dita/dita-for-print/" format="html"
          scope="external">DITA For Print</xref> that contains details about how to customize
        various aspects.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_w2v_4pn_hdb">
      <title>Customizing the DITA + CSS to PDF output</title>
      <p>In recent versions, Oxygen added a new transformation scenario called <b>DITA Map PDF -
          WYSIWYG</b> that allows you to use <b>CSS</b> to style the PDF output, lowering the
        required knowledge for implementing a PDF customization. There is an entire chapter in the
        Oxygen users manual covering various PDF customization details: <xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/20.0/ug-editor/topics/dcpp_the_customization_css.html#dcpp_the_customization_css"
          format="html" scope="external"/>.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
