<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="dita_project_enhancements">
    <title>DITA Project Enhancements</title>
    <body>
        <p>A DITA project file defines a set of deliverables. For each deliverable you have a
            context containing the published DITA Map and filters. The deliverable also specifies
            one or more transtypes, for each transtype specifying a set of parameter names and
            values. The file format of the DITA Project can be either<xref
                href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/blob/develop/src/test/resources/org/dita/dost/project/simple.xml"
                format="html" scope="external"> XML</xref> or <xref
                href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/blob/develop/src/test/resources/org/dita/dost/project/simple.json"
                format="html" scope="external">JSON</xref>. So what could we do with the DITA
            Project in Oxygen?</p>
        <section id="section_e41_rgs_dhb">
            <title>Publishing</title>
            <p>In the future the DITA Open Toolkit (probably version 3.4 or 4.0) will allow
                publishing multiple deliverables by providing such a DITA project from the command
                line. </p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_t1p_tgs_dhb">
            <title>Editing the DITA Project</title>
            <p>We need a special framework containing a schema, custom CSS for editing the DITA
                project in the Oxygen Author visual editing mode. We also need an ANT-based
                transformation scenario for publishing the DITA project.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_lb3_xgs_dhb">
            <title>Adding the DITA Project in the "Master Files" folder</title>
            <p>Once such a DITA project is added to the "Master Files" folder Oxygen could parse it
                and obtain a list of (root map, filter) pairs. We can use this list of root maps
                when renaming or moving content (topics, maps, resources) in the Project view. We
                can use the (root map, filter) pairs to allow in the DITA Maps Manager selecting
                such a pair if somebody wants to edit a topic in such a particular context.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_nzq_13s_dhb">
            <title>Using the DITA Project information for editing</title>
            <p>We have a specific drop-down "Filters" button both in the DITA Maps manager view and
                in the main editing area. The button takes effect over all the files opened in the
                application. We also have a "Root map" combo box in the DITA Maps Manager. Again, it
                takes effect over all the maps and topics opened in the application. The DITA
                Project would contribute (root map, filter) pairs which could be contributed in the
                UI. Where could we contribute them? Maybe the "Root map" combo box could become a
                "Contexts" combo box listing either DITAVAL files or (map, filter) pairs. If we want
                to allow for certain files people to use certain editing contexts (thus avoiding to
                apply the editing context on a per-application wide basis) we have an architectural
                problem, the DITA Keys resolver is more or less a singleton object, but you would
                need sometimes multiple such keys resolvers. </p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_b15_qhs_dhb">
            <title>Using the DITA Project for the "Validate and check for completeness"
                action</title>
            <p>Right now the "Validate and check for completeness" starts validation from a
                particular DITA Map and has a set of DITAVAL filters which can be set. Maybe if a
                DITA Project is opened in the main editing area, we could have a special
                "Validation" button for it on the toolbar, validating all the DITA Maps with all the
                filters specified inside it.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_zfv_ghs_dhb">
            <title>DITA Project extensibility</title>
            <p>From what I discussed with Jarno, ideally in the DITA project file we could include
                our own XML tags from a specific namespace. In this way, for a certain deliverable
                context we could for example also define the "reusable" content folders, the
                "images" folders, information which could be used for information displayed in our
                "DITA Reusable Components" view.</p>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
