<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_z4r_21p_15">
  <title>Possibilities to obtain PDF from DITA</title>
  <body>
    <p>Lately while attending Tekom 2015 and <xref
        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/events/2015/dita-ot_day.html" format="html" scope="external"
        >DITA OT Day 2015</xref> I happened to come across two more DITA to PDF solutions that I did
      not know about so I tried to compile below a list of all DITA to PDF possibilities that I know
      of, along with some details:<ul id="ul_dzv_m1p_15">
        <li>Legacy DITA to PDF editing solution. It is no longer distribute with DITA OT 2.x and is
          probably not compatible anymore with it.</li>
        <li>Default DITA to PDF solution embedded in the DITA Open Toolkit distribution. Besides
          Apache FOP you can also use RenderX XEP or Antenna House for publishing. It's
          customization can be done either via a plugin or via a PDF customization folder: <xref
            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/17.1/ug-editor/index.html#topics/dita_pdf_output_customization.html"
            format="html" scope="external"/>.</li>
        <li>DITA to PDF using CSS. This <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-css"
            format="html" scope="external">open source DITA OT plugin</xref> was developed by Oxygen
          as an alternative to the default PDF publishing. It allows styling the DITA content using
          CSS and publishing to PDF using either <b>Prince XML</b> or <b>Antenna House</b>.</li>
        <li>Antenna House <xref href="https://github.com/AntennaHouse/pdf5" format="html"
            scope="external">DITA OT plugin</xref> for producing PDF from DITA using Antenna House.
          There is also a <xref href="https://github.com/AntennaHouse/ah-dita" format="html"
            scope="external">DITA specialization</xref> plugin which allows you to set specific
          formatting attributes directly to DITA elements.</li>
        <li>DITA to HTML 5 to PDF using CSS. This <xref
            href="http://doctales.github.io/plugins/org.doctales.pdf-css.html" format="html"
            scope="external">open source DITA OT Plugin</xref> publishes DITA to HTML5 and then
          passes the output to <xref href="https://github.com/marcbachmann/node-html-pdf"
            format="html" scope="external">node-html-pdf</xref>. This plugins takes a HTML file as a
          parameter and returns a PDF document. </li>
        <li>The <xref href="http://www.turnkey.com.au/tksweb/index.html" format="html"
            scope="external">TopLeaf</xref> XML Publisher commercial product allows you to produce
          various outputs like PDF and EPUB from XML content. The application also has a visual PDF
          layout formatter, it comes also with a DITA OT plugin and has installation instructions
          for Oxygen:<xref
            href="http://www.turnkey.com.au/tksweb/xmtp/webhelp_out/oxygen/install.html"
            format="html" scope="external"/>.</li>
        <li><xref href="http://www.ovidius.com/en/miramo/" format="html" scope="external"
            >Miramo</xref>, again a commercial solution which recently started developing support
          for DITA using a DITA OT plugin. Possibly user based DITA to PDF publishing will be free
          and server based production will require buying a license. Like TopLeaf, it also has a
          visual PDF layout designer.</li>
        <li>Adobe FrameMaker can also publish to PDF using its own solution.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>Now the question would be, why there are so many solutions available? In my opinion all these
      solutions are available because the default DITA to PDF output still requires quite a lot of
      XSLT skills in order to customize. Jarno Elovirta's <xref
        href="https://dita-generator-hrd.appspot.com/pdf-plugin/" format="html" scope="external">PDF
        plugin generator</xref> covers some of the mainstream possible customizations but not
      all.</p>
    <p>What do you think?</p>
  </body>
</topic>
