<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="dita_linking_stretegies">
    <title>DITA Linking Strategies</title>
    <body>
        <p>This small tutorial is based on the "DITA Linking Strategies" presentations I made for
            the DITA Europe 2016 and DITA North America 2017 conferences. It's a general overview
            about DITA linking possibilities and best practices. And it's meant as a continuation of
            the <xref
                href="http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2015/11/dita-reuse-strategies-short-tutorial.html"
                format="html" scope="external">DITA Reuse Strategies</xref> blog post.</p>
        <p>According to <xref href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hyperlink" format="html"
                scope="external">Wikipedia</xref>: <lq>"A link, is a reference to data that the
                reader can directly follow either by clicking, tapping, or hovering."</lq></p>
        <p>Basically we should regard linking as yet another form of content reuse, only that
            instead of presenting the content in place, it re-directs the end user to some other
            resource. And we'll start with describing linking at DITA Map level.</p>
        <section id="section_bt2_hpz_j1b">
            <title>Map-Level Linking</title>
            <p>A DITA Map uses topic references to assemble the content of the
                publication.<codeblock outputclass="language-xml"> &lt;topicref href="installation.dita">
  &lt;topicref href="server_installation.dita"/>
  &lt;topicref href="client_side_installation.dita"/>
 &lt;/topicref></codeblock></p>
            <p>Depending on the output format, the topic reference may be a link in the table of
                contents for the XHTML based outputs or it may be interpreted as a content reference
                for the PDF based output which generates a single monolith document. So the role of
                the <codeph>topicref</codeph> is dual, it may sometimes be regarded as a link to a
                topic and sometimes as a content reference.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_d5k_rpz_j1b">
            <title>Chunking</title>
            <p>DITA topic modules should be kept as small as possible but sometimes the end user may
                need to read more than one topic in order to achieve a single task. So when
                publishing to HTML-based outputs you will end up asking yourself this
                    question:<lq>Should I prefer larger HTML files or more links in the
                TOC?</lq></p>
            <p>And you should always consider these two ideas:<ul id="ul_ffy_brz_j1b">
                    <li>
                        <p>Links are disruptive. Ideally users would not need to jump around in
                            content to read the entire story they are searching for. </p>
                    </li>
                    <li>Small topics which are usually consecutively read by the end user can
                        probably get merged together.</li>
                </ul></p>
            <p>For example if the installation of your product requires installing both a server
                side and a client side components, using DITA chunking you can choose to have
                separate DITA topic modules for each of the installation procedures but to merge the
                topics together in the web-based
                outputs:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;map>
 &lt;title>User Guide&lt;/title>
 &lt;topicref href="installation.dita" chunk="to-content">
  &lt;topicref href="server_installation.dita" toc="no"/>
  &lt;topicref href="client_side_installation.dita" toc="no"/>
 &lt;/topicref>
&lt;/map></codeblock></p>
            <p>You can read more about chunking in the <xref
                    href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/dita/v1.3/os/part3-all-inclusive/archSpec/base/chunking.html"
                    format="html" scope="external">DITA 1.3 specification</xref>. The <xref
                    href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/dita/styleguide/webhelp-feedback/#Artefact/Topics_and_Information_Types/c_Avoiding_Hierarchy_in_Topics.html"
                    format="html" scope="external">DITA Style Guide</xref> also has a good overview
                about why you should prefer writing small topics and them merging them together
                using the chunking mechanism.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_bhr_grz_j1b">
            <title>Topic-level linking</title>
            <p>Links which appear inside topics can be roughly divided in various categories and
                we'll try to discuss each of these categories separately.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_adf_ysz_j1b">
            <title>In-Content Links</title>
            <p>In-content links are links added manually in the topic
                content:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;li>See: &lt;xref href="http://www.../" format="html" scope="external"/>&lt;/li></codeblock></p>
            <p>You should keep in mind that this kind of links are disruptive to the reading
                experience because when end users encounter them they need to decide weather to read
                further on or to follow the link. But this may be a good thing sometimes. For
                example one of the installation steps may require the end user to download a certain
                library from an external website before continuing.</p>
            <p>You can read more about links in general in the <xref
                    href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/dita/v1.3/os/part3-all-inclusive/langRef/base/xref.html"
                    format="html" scope="external">DITA 1.3 specification</xref>. The <xref
                    href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/dita/styleguide/webhelp-feedback/Artefact/Cross_Referencing/c_Avoiding_Cross_References.html"
                    format="html" scope="external">DITA Style Guide</xref> written by Tony Self also
                discourages the use of in-content links.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_tfx_ttz_j1b">
            <title>Related Links</title>
            <p>Related links are placed at the end of the DITA topic and they allow the end user to
                explore additional resources after the current topic has been
                read.<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;related-links>
    &lt;link href="http://tomcat.apache.org/" format="html" scope="external"/>
&lt;/related-links></codeblock></p>
            <p>In order to minimize disruption when reading the content in general the preferred
                place where to place links is at the end of the generated HTML page.</p>
            <p>You can read more about related links in the <xref
                    href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/dita/v1.3/os/part3-all-inclusive/langRef/base/related-links.html"
                    format="html" scope="external">DITA 1.3 specification</xref>.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_gtq_k5z_j1b">
            <title>Defining related links using Relationship Tables</title>
            <p>Related links do not need to be manually added at the end of each topic. You can
                define relationship tables in the DITA
                Map:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;reltable>
  &lt;relrow>
   &lt;relcell>
    &lt;topicref href="client_side_installation.dita"/>
   &lt;/relcell>
   &lt;relcell>
    &lt;topicref href="server_installation.dita"/>
   &lt;/relcell>
  &lt;/relrow>
  ……..
 &lt;/reltable></codeblock></p>
            <p>These tables can define associations between two or more topics, associations which
                automatically contribute to the related links creation in the generated HTML
                output.</p>
            <p>Here are a couple of benefits of relationship tables:<ul id="ul_sgb_hvz_j1b">
                    <li>
                        <p>A topic should have as few links as possible defined directly in it. This
                            makes it easier to reuse the topic in various contexts and keeps it as
                            separate as possible for other parts of the DITA project, decreasing the
                            possibility of broken links.</p>
                    </li>
                    <li>
                        <p> By default links defined in relationship tables are bi-directional
                            allowing users to land on any of the topics when searching for solutions
                            and find their way to the related ones.</p>
                    </li>
                    <li>
                        <p> Relationship table separates the task of writing topics from the task of
                            finding relations between topics.</p>
                    </li>
                </ul></p>
            <p>You can read more about relationship tables in the <xref
                    href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/dita/v1.3/os/part3-all-inclusive/langRef/base/reltable.html"
                    format="html" scope="external">DITA 1.3 specification</xref>. The <xref
                    href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/dita/styleguide/webhelp-feedback/index.html#Artefact/Cross_Referencing/c_Related_Links_Section.html"
                    format="html" scope="external">DITA Style Guide</xref> recommends using
                relationship tables.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_aw2_pzz_j1b">
            <title>Indirect Links (Key References)</title>
            <p>All the link samples we've look at so far have been direct links, links which point
                to the target using the <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute. Indirect links require two
                    steps:<ol id="ol_l4g_b11_k1b">
                    <li>Define a key in the DITA Map for the
                        target.<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;keydef keys="client_installation" href="client_side_installation.dita"/></codeblock></li>
                    <li>Use the defined key to refer to the target
                        resources.<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;xref keyref="client_installation"/></codeblock></li>
                </ol></p>
            <p>Here are some of the benefits of indirect linking:<ul id="ul_ubv_m11_k1b">
                    <li>
                        <p>Reuse link target text and meta data. If you want to have custom text for
                            a certain link, you can define it directly in the DITA
                            Map:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;keydef keys="dita_ot_website" href="http://www.dita-ot.org/" format="html"
  scope="external">
  &lt;topicmeta>
   &lt;linktext>DITA Open Toolkit Web Site&lt;/linktext>
  &lt;/topicmeta>
 &lt;/keydef></codeblock>and
                            then add key references in all other
                            places:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;xref keyref="dita_ot_website"/></codeblock></p>
                    </li>
                    <li>
                        <p>Easier Conditional linking (including links to topics which sometimes may
                            be missing). If you want your topic to link either to one target or to
                            another depending on the filtering/profiling conditions, instead of
                            adding profiling directly on the link you can add the profiling
                            conditions directly in the DITA
                            Map:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml"> &lt;topicref keys="slicing" href="slicing_vegetables_for_experts.dita" audience="expert"/>
 &lt;topicref keys="slicing" href="slicing_vegetables_for_novices.dita" audience="novice"/>
 &lt;keydef keys="slicing" audience="noLink">&lt;topicmeta>&lt;keywords>
    &lt;keyword>Slicing&lt;/keyword>&lt;/keywords>&lt;/topicmeta>
 &lt;/keydef></codeblock>and
                            then link to the key from each topic:
                            <codeblock>&lt;xref keyref="slicing"/></codeblock></p>
                    </li>
                    <li>
                        <p>Easier Link Management. A good overview about all the outbound links in
                            your project helps you maintain and control lists of allowed external
                            web sites. With indirect references, you can define all references to
                            external resources in a separate DITA Map. An example of a DITA project
                            using indirect links to achieve separation of links by purpose can be
                            found here: <xref
                                href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-project-best-practices"
                                format="html" scope="external"/>.</p>
                    </li>
                    <li>Easier move/rename topics. When you move or rename a topic referenced via
                        indirect links, only the link defined in the DITA Map will break, making it
                        easier to fix broken links.</li>
                </ul></p>
            <p>There is an overview about indirect addressing on the <xref
                    href="http://dita.xml.org/resource/keyref-overview-dita-12" format="html"
                    scope="external">DITA XML Org</xref> website. The <xref
                    href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/dita/1.3/specs/archSpec/base/key-based-addressing.html"
                    format="html" scope="external">DITA 1.3 specification</xref> also has a chapter
                about indirect links.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_bnr_nf1_k1b">
            <title>Auto-generated Links</title>
            <p>Until now we've talked about manually added links, either in the topic or in
                relationship tables. Using the DITA <xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt> attribute you
                can define in the DITA Map relationships between parent and child topic references,
                relationships which result in automatic links added between
                them:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml"> &lt;topicref href="installation.dita" collection-type="sequence">
  &lt;topicref href="server_installation.dita"/>
  &lt;topicref href="client_side_installation.dita"/>
 &lt;/topicref></codeblock>
                There are about 3 useful types of <xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt> values:<ul
                    id="ul_jlv_cg1_k1b">
                    <li>
                        <p><b>Unordered</b> - Links are generated from parent to children, and from
                            children to parent. </p>
                    </li>
                    <li>
                        <p><b>Family</b> - Links are generated from parent to children, from
                            children to parent, and from sibling to sibling. </p>
                    </li>
                    <li>
                        <p><b>Sequence</b> - Links are generated from parent to children, from
                            children to parent, and from child to previous sibling (if applicable)
                            and next sibling (if applicable). </p>
                    </li>
                </ul></p>
            <p>You can read more about auto-generated links in the <xref
                    href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/dita/styleguide/webhelp-feedback/#Artefact/Maps/c_Collection_Types.html"
                    format="html" scope="external">DITA Style Guide</xref>.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_syb_kh1_k1b">
            <title>Conditional Links in Distinct Publications</title>
            <p>You may publish from the same <b>DITA</b> content documentation for multiple
                products. And you may want to have links point to various targets depending on each
                product for which you want to publish the documentation. Or you may want to suppress
                links completely in certain publications.</p>
            <p>When using direct linking you will need to profile each link depending on the
                publication:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">Find our more about slicing vegetables: &lt;xref href="slicing_vegetables_for_experts.dita" audience="expert"/>
&lt;xref href="slicing_vegetables_for_novices.dita" audience="novice"/>.</codeblock>With
                indirect links you can define the profiling attributes as DITA Map
                level:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml"> &lt;topicref keys="slicing" href="slicing_vegetables_for_experts.dita" audience="expert"/>
 &lt;topicref keys="slicing" href="slicing_vegetables_for_novices.dita" audience="novice"/></codeblock>and
                thus simplify the reference made in the topic
                content:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">Find our more about slicing vegetables: &lt;xref keyref="slicing/>.</codeblock></p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_f34_431_k1b"><title>Conditional Links in the same
                publication</title><p>Using DITA 1.3 key scopes you can reuse a topic multiple times
                in a DITA Map and have each referenced topic contain links to various target topics.
                For example if my <filepath>preparing_vegetables.dita</filepath> topic has a
                link:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;link keyref="slicing"/></codeblock></p>you
            can define in the DITA Map various key scopes which bind the "slicing" key to various
                targets:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml"> &lt;topichead navtitle="Cooking for Experts" keyscope="expert">
  &lt;topicref href="preparing_vegetables.dita" keys="preparing"/>
  &lt;topicref href="slicing_vegetables_for_experts.dita" keys="slicing"/>
 &lt;/topichead>
 &lt;topichead navtitle="Cooking for Novices" keyscope="novice">
  &lt;topicref href="preparing_vegetables.dita" keys="preparing"/>
  &lt;topicref href="slicing_vegetables_for_novices.dita" keys="slicing"/>
 &lt;/topichead></codeblock><p>This
                previous <xref
                    href="http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2015/08/dita-13-key-scopes-next-generation-of.html"
                    format="html" scope="external">blog post</xref> should contain more details
                about key scopes.</p></section>
        <section id="section_ct2_qg1_k1b">
            <title>Link Text</title>
            <p>When linking to an external resource or to a DITA topic or element, the publishing
                engine will attempt to deduce the link text from the target context. For example the
                link to a DITA topic or element which contains a <xmlelement>title</xmlelement> will
                use that title as the link text. The link to an external resource (for example to
                    <b>http://www.oxygenxml.com</b>) will use by default the <b>HTTP</b> location as
                the link text. You can also customize each link text individually. So if you ask
                yourself this question:</p>
            <p>
                <lq>Should I leave the link text to be automatically computed or should I set a more
                    friendly text?</lq>
            </p>
            <p>For internal links to elements having a title in general it is more flexible not to
                set a custom text and let the publishing engine decide one for you. For external
                links you should usually specify your custom link text. </p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_wtf_vj1_k1b">
            <title>Should I link or should I reuse?</title>
            <p>Let's say you want to bring to the end user's attention a certain paragraph, note or
                section. If that particular target element is not very large you should always
                prefer reusing it (using a content reference) instead of linking to it.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_rzj_gj1_k1b">
            <title>Conclusions</title>
            <p>The problem with managing links in a growing <b>DITA</b> project is the same problem
                with all larger projects, you need to get yourselves organized. As an overview of
                what we've discussed so far I would suggest the following best practices:<ul
                    id="ul_hqm_nj1_k1b">
                    <li>
                        <p>Linking is a form of reuse so:</p>
                        <ul id="ul_cdc_pj1_k1b">
                            <li>Reuse small pieces of content instead of linking to them</li>
                            <li>Avoid too much linking (Linking is disruptive)</li>
                        </ul>
                    </li>
                    <li>
                        <p>Prefer using indirect links. It will allow you to reuse link text and
                            make profiling/filtering easier while giving you a better overview on
                            the outbound links for your project.</p>
                    </li>
                </ul></p>
        </section>
        <p>If you want to experiment with the various linking strategies we discussed above you can
            find here some samples: <xref
                href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/forum/files/linking-strategies-samples.zip"
                format="zip" scope="external"/>.</p>
    </body>
</topic>
