<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_lqn_dkt_dt">
  <title>DITA 1.3 Support in Upcoming Oxygen XML Editor 17.1</title>
  <body>
    <p>We plan to release Oxygen 17.1 in about a month or two, probably at the beginning of October
      this year. Starting with version 17.1, Oxygen includes experimental support for editing and
      publishing using some of the DITA 1.3 features. If you want to test this support and give us
      feedback please <xref href="mailto:support@oxygenxml.com" format="html" scope="external">support@oxygenxml.com</xref>
      directly to obtain an Oxygen 17.1 beta kit.</p>
    <p>To enable DITA 1.3 editing support in Oxygen 17.1 and use the custom bundled <b>DITA Open
        Toolkit 2.1</b> for publishing, open the <uicontrol>Preferences</uicontrol> dialog box, go
      to <uicontrol>DITA</uicontrol>, and select the <uicontrol>Built-in DITA OT 2.x</uicontrol>
      radio button.</p>
    <p> The following table is a list of DITA 1.3 features and their implementation status: </p>
    <table id="dita1-3-support__table_zbc_mv5_ps">
      <title>Table 1. DITA 1.3 Features Implementation Status</title>
      <tgroup cols="3">
        <colspec colnum="1" colname="col1"/>
        <colspec colnum="2" colname="col2"/>
        <colspec colnum="3" colname="col3"/>
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry id="d46e60">Feature</entry>
            <entry id="d46e63">Editing</entry>
            <entry id="d46e66">Publishing [Latest DITA Open Toolkit 2.x is used.]</entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry>DITA 1.3 DTD, XML Schema, and Relax NG-based  maps/topics/tasks/references,
              etc.</entry>
            <entry>
              <p>New DITA 1.3 file templates. Also by default DITA topics and maps which do not
                specify version in the DOCTYPE declaration are also considered to be DITA 1.3.</p>
              <p>Specific annotations presented in the content completion window and documentation
                tooltips for all new DITA 1.3 elements.</p>
            </entry>
            <entry>See below</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Learning Object and Group maps</entry>
            <entry>New file templates</entry>
            <entry>No specific support implemented</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Troubleshooting specialization</entry>
            <entry>Create and edit new troubleshooting topics</entry>
            <entry>No specific support implemented</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>XML markup domain</entry>
            <entry>Validation and Content Completion</entry>
            <entry>Special rendering in PDF and XHTML-based outputs.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Equation and MathML domain</entry>
            <entry>
              <p>Validation and content completion</p>
              <p>Display and Insert equations</p>
            </entry>
            <entry>Special rendering in PDF and XHTML-based outputs.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>SVG domain</entry>
            <entry>
              <p>Validation and content completion</p>
              <p>Display referenced SVG content</p>
            </entry>
            <entry>Special rendering in PDF and XHTML-based outputs.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Other new DITA 1.3 elements (<systemoutput>div</systemoutput>,
                <systemoutput>strike-through</systemoutput>, <systemoutput>overline</systemoutput>,
              etc)</entry>
            <entry>Validation and Content Completion.</entry>
            <entry>Special rendering in PDF and XHTML-based outputs.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Release management domain</entry>
            <entry>Validation and Content Completion</entry>
            <entry>No specific support implemented.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Scoped keys</entry>
            <entry>
              <p>Define key scopes</p>
              <p>Validate and check for completeness</p>
              <p>Resolve keyrefs and conkeyrefs taking key scopes into account.</p>
            </entry>
            <entry>Partially implemented. Various issues may still be encountered.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Branch filtering</entry>
            <entry>Display, create and edit ditavalref elements.</entry>
            <entry>Partially implemented. Various issues may still be encountered.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Shorthand to address syntax that identifies elements in the same topic</entry>
            <entry>Properly resolved for validation, links, and conrefs.</entry>
            <entry>Implemented.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Various table attributes (<systemoutput>orientation</systemoutput>,
                <systemoutput>rotation</systemoutput>, <systemoutput>scope</systemoutput>, and
                <systemoutput>headers</systemoutput> on cells)</entry>
            <entry>Not implemented in the Table Properties action support. But attributes can be
              changed from the Attributes view.</entry>
            <entry>Not implemented.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>New Map <systemoutput>topicref</systemoutput> attributes
                (<systemoutput>cascade</systemoutput>,
              <systemoutput>deliveryTarget</systemoutput>)</entry>
            <entry>Allow setting new attributes, propose proper values for them.</entry>
            <entry>Implemented.</entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
  </body>
</topic>
