<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="enhancing_dita_publishing_with_plugins">
  <title>Enhancing DITA Publishing With Plugins</title>
  <body>
    <p>The DITA Open Toolkit publishing engine comes with support for predefined output formats such
      as HTM5, PDF, and Eclipse Help. As the architecture of the publishing engine is plugin-based,
      over time we have developed <xref
        href="https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Adita-ot-plugin+org%3Aoxygenxml&amp;type=Repositories"
        format="html" scope="external">lots of useful plugins</xref> in the <b>Oxygen XML GitHub</b>
      account that enhance the publishing and in this blog post, I will enumerate some of them. For
      the plugins that are already installed within <b>Oxygen XML Editor's</b> DITA Open Toolkit
      engine, I added the <b>[Bundled]</b> marker.</p>
    <section id="section_xf3_zjh_jhb">
      <title>Plugin that Converts DITA Maps to PDF Using CSS 3 [Bundled]</title>
      <p>Maybe our most important work so far, <xref
          href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-ot-css-pdf" format="html" scope="external">this
          plugin</xref> can publish DITA to PDF using CSS. As a publishing engine, it can use either
        our <b>Oxygen XML Chemistry</b> processor (freely bundled with <b>Oxygen XML Editor</b>) or
        the Antenna House and Prince XML engines.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_nnd_lkh_jhb">
      <title>DITA Metrics Report [Bundled]</title>
      <p>This is a very useful <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-ot-metrics"
          format="html" scope="external">open source plugin</xref> that generates an HTML report
        from an existing DITA project containing lots of useful information: <ul id="ul_tz1_xkh_jhb">
          <li>Total number of maps and topics that are part of the project.</li>
          <li>Total number of elements used in topics and maps along with a table presenting all
            element names and their usage counter.</li>
          <li>The used elements used from each DITA domain.</li>
          <li>Total number of attributes used in topics and maps along with a table presenting all
            attribute names and their usage counter.</li>
          <li>Statistics about the conditional attributes used in the project.</li>
          <li>Information about content reuse.</li>
          <li>Text and content statistics, including both total words (word count) and unique words
            (vocabulary).</li>
          <li>List of largest and smallest topics and the number of words each one used.</li>
          <li>Listing of all links to resources outside of the project.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_ynk_gkh_jhb">
      <title>Export DITA Map Plugin [Bundled]</title>
      <p>You can use <xref
          href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-export-map#export-dita-map-plugin" format="html"
          scope="external">this free plugin</xref> to create a ZIP file from your entire DITA
        project. The plugin also takes filters/profiling into account when including topics.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_fdh_wmh_jhb">
      <title>Publish DITA Content with References to Video and Audio Resources. [Bundled]</title>
      <p>A <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-media-support" format="html"
          scope="external">DITA Open Toolkit plugin</xref> that converts the DITA
          <xmlelement>object</xmlelement> element to various HTML 5 structures such as
          &lt;<xmlelement>video</xmlelement>, <xmlelement>audio</xmlelement>, or
          <xmlelement>iframe</xmlelement>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_zf3_v4h_jhb">
      <title>Plugin That Adds Edit Links in HTML or PDF-based Outputs [Bundled]</title>
      <p>This <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-reviewer-links" format="html"
          scope="external">plugin</xref> adds edit links in the HTML or PDF-based outputs allowing
        subject matter experts to give feedback on the published content directly using a DITA web
        editing tool (such as <b>Oxygen XML Web Author</b>).</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_qsh_nph_jhb">
      <title>Create Single Merged XML Document From Entire DITA Project [Bundled]</title>
      <p>This <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-merged" format="html" scope="external"
          >plugin</xref> produces a merged output from the entire DITA map structure without further
        processing. It is useful if you want to further process the merged XML document for
        producing various reports.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_xqz_wph_jhb">
      <title>Dynamically Publish Excel Content as DITA</title>
      <p>A <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-excel" format="html" scope="external">DITA
          Open Toolkit plugin</xref> that dynamically converts to DITA Excel files referenced with
          <codeph>format="excel"</codeph> in DITA maps.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_jmz_bsm_gjb">
      <title>Dynamically Use JSON Content in DITA Topics</title>
      <p>A <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-json" format="html" scope="external">DITA
          Open Toolkit plugin</xref> that dynamically converts to DITA JSON files referenced with
          <codeph>format="json"</codeph> in DITA maps.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_hlh_1qh_jhb">
      <title>Embed HTML Content in DITA Topics [Bundled]</title>
      <p>A <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-embed-html" format="html" scope="external"
          >plugin</xref> that allows embedding well-formed HTML content in a DITA topic inside a
        special element. </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_mtc_2qh_jhb">
      <title>Embed LateX Equations in DITA Content</title>
      <p>A <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-latex" format="html" scope="external">DITA
          Open Toolkit plugin</xref> that allows publishing embedded Latex mathematical equations to
        HTML and PDF.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_dmt_xhp_m3b">
      <title>Embed UML Diagrams in DITA Content</title>
      <p>A <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-plant-uml" format="html" scope="external"
          >DITA Open Toolkit plugin</xref> that allows publishing embedded UML diagrams equations to
        HTML and PDF.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_lwj_hqh_jhb">
      <title>Float Images in HTML and PDF Outputs</title>
      <p>A <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-image-float" format="html" scope="external"
          >plugin</xref> that allows floating an image referenced in a DITA topic left or right
        depending on the <xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt> attribute value specified on it. </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_jf3_jqh_jhb">
      <title>Embed Referenced MathML and SVGZ Images in HTML Output</title>
      <p>A <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-embed-html-mathml-svg" format="html"
          scope="external">DITA Open Toolkit plugin</xref> that allows you to embed referenced
        MathML and SVG images in the HTML5 and XHTML output.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_m3l_tqh_jhb">
      <title>Dynamically Convert DITA Tables to Graphs</title>
      <p>A <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-table-svg" format="html" scope="external"
          >DITA Open Toolkit plugin</xref> that converts DITA tables having a certain structure to
        SVG graphs.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_hmk_glh_jhb">
      <title>Show Oxygen Change Tracking Information in the PDF Output [Bundled]</title>
      <p>This <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-classic-pdf-review" format="html"
          scope="external">plugin</xref> allows you to see <b>Oxygen XML Editor</b> track changes
        (insertions, deletions, or comments) in the PDF output.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_azk_tlh_jhb">
      <title>Sample Customization Plugin for Classic PDF Output</title>
      <p>This sample DITA Open Toolkit PDF <xref
          href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/com.oxygenxml.pdf2.ug" format="html" scope="external"
          >customization plugin</xref> is a good starting point if you want to:<ul
          id="ul_wkm_2mh_jhb">
          <li>
            <p>Customize fonts</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Customize a cover page to provide custom logos and coloring</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Customize page headers and footers</p>
          </li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_zfl_gnh_jhb">
      <title>PDF - Generate Numbers Before Topic's Title</title>
      <p>A DITA-OT PDF2 <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-ot-numbering" format="html"
          scope="external">customization plugin</xref> that can be installed to generate numbers
        before each topic's title.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_vky_jph_jhb">
      <title>PDF Plugin That Presents Chapters With Landscape Orientation</title>
      <p>A PDF <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-classic-pdf-landscape-sample"
          format="html" scope="external">customization folder</xref> that allows you to define
        landscape orientation for a certain chapter. </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
