<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="enhanving_dita_publishing_with_plugins">
    <title>Enhanving DITA Publishing with plugins</title>
    <body>
        <p>The DITA Open Toolkit publishing engine comes with support for predefined output formats
            like HTM5, PDF and Eclipse Help. As the architecture of the publishing engine is plugin
            based in time we have developed under the Oxygen XML GitHub organizations l<xref
                href="https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Adita-ot-plugin+org%3Aoxygenxml&amp;type=Repositories"
                format="html" scope="external">ots of useful plugins</xref> which enhance the
            publishing and in this blog post I will enumerate some of them.</p>
        <section id="section_xf3_zjh_jhb">
            <title>Plugin that converts DITA Maps to PDF using CSS 3</title>
            <p>Maybe our most important work so far, <xref
                    href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-ot-css-pdf" format="html"
                    scope="external">this plugin</xref> can publish DITA to PDF using CSS. As
                publishing engine it can use either our Oxygen XML Chemistry processor (freely
                bundled with Oxygen XML Editor) or the Antenna House and Prince XML engines.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_nnd_lkh_jhb">
            <title>DITA Metrics Report</title>
            <p>This is a very useful <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-ot-metrics"
                    format="html" scope="external">open source plugin</xref> which generates an HTML
                report from an existing DITA project containing lots of useful information like: <ul
                    id="ul_tz1_xkh_jhb">
                    <li>Total number of maps and topics which are part of the project.</li>
                    <li>Total number of elements used in topics and maps along with a table
                        presenting all element names and their usage counter.</li>
                    <li>The used elements used from each DITA domain.</li>
                    <li>Total number of attributes used in topics and maps along with a table
                        presenting all attribute names and their usage counter.</li>
                    <li>Statistics about the conditional attributes used in the project.</li>
                    <li>Information about content reuse.</li>
                </ul><ul id="ul_uz1_xkh_jhb">
                    <li>Text and content statistics, including both total words (word count) and
                        unique words (vocabulary).</li>
                </ul><ul id="ul_vz1_xkh_jhb">
                    <li>List of largest and smallest topics and the number of words each one
                        used.</li>
                    <li>Listing of all links to resources outside of the project.</li>
                </ul></p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_ynk_gkh_jhb">
            <title>Export DITA Map Plugin</title>
            <p>You can use <xref
                    href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-export-map#export-dita-map-plugin"
                    format="html" scope="external">this free plugin</xref> to create a ZIP file from
                your entire DITA project. The plugin also takes filters/profiling into account when
                including topics.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_fdh_wmh_jhb">
            <title>Publish DITA Content with References to Video and Audio Resources.</title>
            <p><xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-media-support" format="html"
                    scope="external">DITA Open Toolkit plugin</xref> which converts the DITA
                    <xmlelement>object</xmlelement> element to various HTML 5 structures like
                    &lt;<xmlelement>video</xmlelement>, <xmlelement>audio</xmlelement> or
                    <xmlelement>iframe</xmlelement>.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_zf3_v4h_jhb">
            <title>Plugin which adds edit links in HTML or PDF based outputs</title>
            <p>This <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-reviewer-links" format="html"
                    scope="external">plugin</xref> adds edit links in the HTML or PDF-based outputs
                allowing subject matter experts to give feedback on the published content directly
                using a DITA web editing tool like oXygen XML Web Author.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_qsh_nph_jhb">
            <title>Create Single Merged XML Document From Entire DITA Project</title>
            <p>This <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-merged" format="html"
                    scope="external">plugin</xref> produces a merged output from the entire DITA Map
                structure without further processing. It's useful if you want to further process the
                merged XML document for producing various reports.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_xqz_wph_jhb">
            <title>Dynamically Publish Excel Content as DITA</title>
            <p><xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-excel" format="html" scope="external"
                    >DITA Open Toolkit plugin</xref> which dynamically converts to DITA Excel files
                referenced with format="excel" in DITA Maps.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_hlh_1qh_jhb">
            <title>Embed HTML Content in DITA Topics</title>
            <p><xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-embed-html" format="html"
                    scope="external">Plugin</xref> which allows embedding well-formed HTML content
                in a DITA topic inside a special element. </p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_mtc_2qh_jhb">
            <title>Embed LateX equations in DITA Content</title>
            <p><xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-latex" format="html" scope="external"
                    >DITA Open Toolkit plugin</xref> which allows publishing embedded Latex
                mathematical equations to HTML and PDF.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_lwj_hqh_jhb">
            <title>Float Images in HTML and PDF outputs</title>
            <p><xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-image-float" format="html"
                    scope="external">Plugin</xref> which allows floating an image referenced in a
                DITA topic left or right depending on the "outputclass" attribute value specified on
                it. </p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_jf3_jqh_jhb">
            <title>Embed Referenced MathML and SVG images in HTML output</title>
            <p><xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-embed-html-mathml-svg" format="html"
                    scope="external">DITA Open Toolkit plugin</xref> which allows you to embed
                referenced MathML and SVG images in the HTML5 and XHTML output.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_m3l_tqh_jhb">
            <title>Dynamically Convert DITA Tables to Graphs</title>
            <p><xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-table-svg" format="html"
                    scope="external">DITA Open Toolkit plugin</xref> which converts DITA tables
                having a certain structure to SVG graphs.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_sr2_jmh_jhb">
            <title>Contribute Default Attribute Values Based on RelaxNG Schemas</title>
            <p>DITA Open Toolkit 2.x <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-relaxng-defaults"
                    format="html" scope="external">plugin</xref> which allows the DITA OT parser to
                process default attribute values specified in RelaxNG schemas. Based on this plugin
                DITA Open Toolkit 3.x already has such functionality enabled by default.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_hmk_glh_jhb">
            <title>Show Oxygen Change Tracking information in the PDF output</title>
            <p>This <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-classic-pdf-review" format="html"
                    scope="external">plugin</xref> allows you to see Oxygen XML Editor track changes
                (insertions, deletions or comments) in the PDF output.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_azk_tlh_jhb">
            <title>Sample Customization Plugin for Classic PDF Output</title>
            <p>This sample DITA Open Toolkit PDF <xref
                    href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/com.oxygenxml.pdf2.ug" format="html"
                    scope="external">customization plugin</xref> is a good starting point if you
                want to:<ul id="ul_wkm_2mh_jhb">
                    <li>
                        <p>Customize fonts</p>
                    </li>
                    <li>
                        <p>Customize a Cover page to provide custom logos and coloring</p>
                    </li>
                    <li>
                        <p>Customize Page headers and footers</p>
                    </li>
                </ul></p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_zfl_gnh_jhb">
            <title>PDF - Generate numbers before topic's title</title>
            <p>A DITA-OT PDF2 <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-ot-numbering"
                    format="html" scope="external">customization plugin</xref> which can be
                installed to generate numbers before each topic's title.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_vky_jph_jhb">
            <title>PDF Plugin Which Presents Chapters With Landscape Orientation</title>
            <p>PDF <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/dita-classic-pdf-landscape-sample"
                    format="html" scope="external">customization folder</xref> which allows you to
                define landscape orientation for a certain chapter. </p>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
