<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_psm_s2g_dq">
  <title>Using DITA to Document a Software Product</title>
  <body>
    <p>Besides working on an <b>XML Editor</b> with lots of <b>DITA</b> editing functionality we
      also use DITA internally for editing the <b>Oxygen User's Guide</b>. </p>
    <p>In this article I will try to give you an overview of our entire workflow as evidence that
        <b>DITA</b> does work and that it can be used and implemented without expensive solutions. </p>
    <p>First here's an overview of our needs:<ul id="ul_sd1_hfg_dq">
        <li><b>Offline Help</b> which is available inside the installed application. Oxygen is a
          multi-platform application so we need to generate both <b>HTML Help</b> (CHM) for
            <b>Windows</b> and <b>JavaHelp</b> for the <b>Mac OSX</b> and <b>Linux</b>
          installations. Also for the <b>Oxygen Eclipse Plugin</b> we need to generate <b>Eclipse
            Help</b>.</li>
        <li><b>Online Help</b> which is available as <xref
            href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-oxygen/" format="html" scope="external"><b>WebHelp
              with Feedback</b></xref> on our web site and allows users to add comments to each
          topic. Those comments can then be used by us to rephrase and improve our
          documentation.</li>
        <li><b>PDF</b> containing the entire contents of the user's manual. Nowadays most our users
          use the online <b>WebHelp</b> because it can be used much easier for finding certain
          topics so in our case at least the <b>PDF</b> output is not popular anymore along
          users.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>We have two main distributions (<b>Standalone</b> and <b>Eclipse plugin</b>) and three main
      products (<b>Editor</b>, <b>Developer</b> and <b>Author</b>). So we need to produce about six
      (6) different publications from the same <b>DITA</b> content depending on the shipped
      product.</p>
    <p>And here's an overview of the tools we use:</p>
    <section>
      <title>Oxygen XML Editor</title>
      <p>This may not come as a surprise but we use our own product to edit <b>DITA</b> content,
        partly because it's ours and partly because it is a very good tool. During the last couple
        of years this has been a good opportunity to improve our product based on our own feedback
        (feedback coming from our technical writers).</p>
      <p><b>Oxygen</b> is used in two ways:<ol id="ol_bnc_gng_dq">
          <li>By the technical writers to write DITA content.</li>
          <li>By the reviewers to review documented issues by adding comments, making changes with
            change tracking enabled.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>DITA Open Toolkit + WebHelp plugin</title>
      <p>We use the DITA Open Toolkit to publish DITA content to the outputs we are interested in.
        The <b>WebHelp</b> and <b>WebHelp with Feedback</b> outputs are our own additions to the
          <b>DITA Open Toolkit</b>. But we do not use any special customizations for the other
        outputs.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Jenkins integration server</title>
      <p>We have an automated script which builds all the user manual outputs every night.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Automated DITA Content Validation</title>
      <p>There is a script which runs on a test server and does three types of checks on the
          <b>DITA</b> content:<ol id="ol_g4h_zkg_dq">
          <li>Validate and check for completeness, check for broken links, images, broken web links
            and so on.</li>
          <li>Check and report topics, resources and images which are no longer referenced
            anywhere.</li>
          <li>Spell check the entire DITA content.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Git as a version control system</title>
      <p>For a long time we used <b>Subversion</b> for version control. Recently we moved our DITA
        content to a private <b>GitHub</b> repository and we also made a public <b>GitHub</b>
        repository containing a copy of our user manual's DITA content:<xref
          href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/userguide" format="html" scope="external"/>. We use the
          <b>SourceTree</b> application to work with <b>Git</b> and we are quite happy with it.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Atlassian Jira for workflow</title>
      <p>We use Atlassian Jira to provide a workflow both for the issues which are related directly
        to our software product and for the issues which are related exclusively with our user's
        manual. The JIRA is integrated with both our <b>SVN</b> and <b>GIT</b> repositories so it
        shows for a certain issue all resources which have been modified to fix it.</p>
      <p>More details about how with work with <b>DITA</b> can be found in these slides I presented
        at <b>DITA Europe 2014</b>:<xref
          href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/forum/files/usingDitaForOxygenUsersManual.odp" format="odp"
          scope="external"/>.</p>
      <p>Video demonstration showing how collaboration on a technical publication with Subversion
        can be achieved: <xref
          href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/demo/Collaborative_Authoring_Using_Subversion.html"
          format="html" scope="external"/>.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
