<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_pvf_tqf_kw">
  <title>Guided DITA Authoring Solution Overview</title>
  <body>
    <p>We've had past blog posts about how Oxygen can be used to impose various editing behaviors
      for your team and in this blog post we are going to try and bring all these solutions together
      in a larger overview.</p>
    <section id="section_gdc_fvf_kw">
      <title>Learning to work with DITA and Oxygen</title>
      <p>You can find useful links for learning to edit DITA using Oxygen in this previous blog
        post: <xref
          href="http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2016/03/resources-for-learning-dita-with-oxygen.html"
          format="html"
          >http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2016/03/resources-for-learning-dita-with-oxygen.html</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_ohc_55f_kw">
      <title>Migrating to DITA</title>
      <p>There are multiple reasons why you would want to migrate from unstructured content to
        structured: <xref
          href="http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2015/12/migrating-to-structured-standards-based.html"
          format="html"
          >http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2015/12/migrating-to-structured-standards-based.html</xref>. </p>
      <p>This older blog post details some possibilities of migrating Word documents to DITA: <xref
          href="http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2016/05/how-to-migrate-from-word-to-dita.html"
          format="html"
          >http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2016/05/how-to-migrate-from-word-to-dita.html</xref>. But you
        also have ways to migrate from XML-based standards like DocBook or XHTML to DITA using a set
        of predefined transformation scenarios.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_lgg_mvf_kw">
      <title>Implementing your own Style Guide</title>
      <p>Let's say you are a team of tech writers collaborating on a DITA-based project and doing
        things your way, maybe you have various best practices about what elements to use and when
        to use them. So at some point you gather on an internal server a set of HTML resources which
        explain how various DITA elements should be used. And you want all the team members to have
        access to that set of HTML resources directly from Oxygen.</p>
      <p>This blog post should have more details and useful links to get you started: <xref
          href="http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2016/03/implementing-your-own-style-guide.html"
          format="html"
          >http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2016/03/implementing-your-own-style-guide.html</xref></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_n4s_jwf_kw">
      <title>Imposing Controlled Attribute Values</title>
      <p>If you want to impose values which need to be set for profiling or general-use DITA
        attributes this blog post should cover all you need to know about this: <xref
          href="http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2015/07/controlled-attribute-values-for-your.html"
          format="html"
          >http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2015/07/controlled-attribute-values-for-your.html</xref></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_ncf_bhg_kw">
      <title>Restricting the Visual Editing Experience</title>
      <p>The entire visual editing experience using the <b>Author</b> editing mode in Oxygen is
          <b>CSS</b> driven. Oxygen has support for defining various CSS layers which can be applied
        when editing DITA content. For example if you choose to create a LightWeight DITA topic in
        Oxygen it has a special editing layer which allows it to be edited with a combination of
        buttons, hints and form controls.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_rwd_4wf_kw">
      <title>Imposing Business Rules and Structure Restrictions to the DITA content</title>
      <p>Most of the times, instead of relying on people to memorize various internal documentation
        style rules, you can convert those rules to Schematron, allowing the application to
        automatically signal to the writer when a rule is not obeyed. You can also add quick fixes
        to show writers various ways to rectify the problem. This blog post should give you more
        details about this:<xref
          href="http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2015/05/schematron-checks-to-help-technical.html"
          format="html" scope="external"
          >http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2015/05/schematron-checks-to-help-technical.html</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_xpf_cyf_kw">
      <title>Running  Batch Validation Checks on all of you DITA content</title>
      <p>The <b>Validate and Check For Completeness</b> tool available in the <b>DITA Maps
          Manager</b> view performs a lot if different consistency checks on all your DITA topics.
        It can also be used to apply <b>Schematron</b> business rules on all your topics: <xref
          href="http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2015/12/dita-map-validate-and-check-for.html"
          format="html"
          >http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2015/12/dita-map-validate-and-check-for.html</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_av5_zwf_kw">
      <title>Sharing DITA Editing Customizations With Your Team</title>
      <p>Most of the custom editing behaviors, toolbar and menu buttons that are available when
        editing DITA content are defined in the <b>DITA</b> framework configuration. A framework
        configuration's general anatomy is described here: <xref
          href="http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2014/08/the-oxygen-sdk-part-2-frameworks.html"
          format="html"
          >http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2014/08/the-oxygen-sdk-part-2-frameworks.html</xref>.</p>
      <p>The framework configuration can be shared with all your team members. For example here's a
        way to disallow team members from using certain DITA elements: <xref
          href="http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2015/08/document-type-extension-sharing.html"
          format="html"
          >http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2015/08/document-type-extension-sharing.html</xref>. And here's
        a way to distribute new DITA file templates to your team: <xref
          href="http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2015/12/sharing-new-custom-file-templates-for.html"
          format="html"
          >http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2015/12/sharing-new-custom-file-templates-for.html</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_lqh_fxf_kw">
      <title>Sharing Global Application Settings With Your Team</title>
      <p>Let's say you want all your team members to enable the automatic spell checker when writing
        documentation or you want all of them to use a custom term dictionary or a custom set of
        learned words. This older blog post should give you some hints about how global Oxygen
        settings can be distributed to your team members: <xref
          href="http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2015/11/sharing-application-settings.html" format="html"
          >http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2015/11/sharing-application-settings.html</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_hhl_scg_kw">
      <title>Collaboration, Content Management and Version Tracking</title>
      <p>All major Component Management Systems (CMSs) have plugins which can be installed in Oxygen
        to provide access to the CMS: <xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/partners.html#cmssolutionpartners" format="html"
          >https://www.oxygenxml.com/partners.html#cmssolutionpartners</xref>. But even if you lack
        the funds to buy a commercial CMS there are still plenty of open source version tracking
        solutions which allow collaboration on a single DITA project: <xref
          href="http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2013/12/collaboration-teams-working-on-common.html"
          format="html"
          >http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2013/12/collaboration-teams-working-on-common.html</xref>. For
        example the Oxygen User's Manual is written in <b>DITA</b> and we use a <b>GitHub</b>
        private repository to collaborate on it: <xref
          href="http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2014/11/collaboration-for-documenting-software.html"
          format="html"
          >http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2014/11/collaboration-for-documenting-software.html</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_wql_wyh_kw">
      <title>Allowing Subject Matter Experts to Review Content</title>
      <p>Many technical writers are interested in having their content reviewed by the engineers who
        are directly involved in building the tools. Oxygen has support for change tracking and for
        adding comments directly in the edited content. Engineers do not necessarily need to have
        the standalone version of Oxygen installed. The Oxygen Web Author is an online editing and
        reviewing solution which allows engineers to add comments and propose changes directly on
        the DITA content by using any device with a web browser (laptop, tablet, phone): <xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/xml_web_author.html" format="html"
          >https://www.oxygenxml.com/xml_web_author.html</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <p>I hope this overview will help you implement a complete guided authoring experience using
      Oxygen. If you have any questions and suggestions, they are as usual welcomed.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
