<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_trg_15z_fs">
  <title>How to Host a Webinar</title>
  <body>
    <p>We periodically host webinars using the GotoWebinar platform. We have two main actors, the
      host and the presenter and for any other company or consultant who wants to host webinars I'm
      attaching below a general set of things the host needs to do during the webinar:</p>
    <p>
      <ul id="ul_d1v_c5z_fs">
        <li>
          <p>Half an hour before the start time the host starts the webbinar from the <b>Go To
              Webinar</b> panel → <b>My Webinars </b></p>
        </li>
        <li>The host (main organizer) and the secondary actors (presenter and members of staff) log
          in, they are all made organizers. </li>
        <li>The organizer and presenter test the sound.</li>
        <li>All presenters need to: <ul id="ul_wgs_b5z_fs">
            <li>Set resolution to 1280 x 800. (Good for recording the webinar).</li>
            <li>The windows start-up menu needs to be in auto hide mode.</li>
            <li>The Desktop needs to be cleaned of clutter in order not to distract watchers.</li>
            <li>All useless applications need to be closed. For example the email application could
              show email notifications during the presentation. </li>
            <li>If you are presenting things in the web browser, please make sure you have no extra
              tabs opened in it. </li>
            <li>The host opens the power point and goes to full screen. </li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Exactly at the scheduled hour the host presses the <b>Start Broadcast</b> button and
          presses the <b>Show my screen</b> option. The staff member in charge for recording will
          start it on his computer.</li>
        <li>The first presentation slide can have the names of the host and the presenter and the
          title of the webinar. </li>
        <li>Host starts speaking: "Hello everybody, my name is X and I will be this webinar's host.
          I invited my coleague Y to present this webinar covering Z support in Oxygen. This webinar
          will focus mainly on ... "</li>
        <li>The second slide is the Agenda. </li>
        <li>Host continues to speak: "Our agenda today starts with an introduction followed by Y's
          presentation then we will have a dedicated Q&amp;A section at the end followed by a quick
          overview of upcoming events, webinars and conferences. "</li>
        <li>The third slide is presented, the Questions slide. </li>
        <li>
          <p>Host speaks: "You do not need to wait until the dedicated Q&amp;A section to ask
            questions. You can ask questions at any time during the webinar using the Questions
            panel from the Go to Webinar interface. Some of my coleagues who have already joined the
            webinar will answer your questions. At the end we'll go over some of the relevant
            questions. This webinar is recorded and a recording as well as sample files used during
            the webinar will be made available in a couple of days. "</p>
        </li>
        <li>Fourth slide. Host continues to speak: "Before Y will start his presentation I would
          like you yo answer the following questions..."</li>
        <li>And the host releases the pre-created polls. He presses <b>Start</b> on a poll, talks
          about choices, waits a little then closes the poll and shares the results, closes the poll
          and then shares the results. Then the results are discusses and then the poll is hidden.
          And so on for each poll.</li>
        <li>The fifth slide, the host makes Y the presenter, Y will start presenting for about 45
          minutes.</li>
        <li>During the presentation the host looks over questions, he answers some of them. </li>
        <li>Y has finished the presentation and thanks for the attendance. </li>
        <li>The host un-mutes himself and starts speaking without sharing his screen: "Thank you Y
          for this very nice presentation on Z. We covered a lot of ground today. Let's go over some
          of the questions.... "</li>
        <li>Host takes the screen and talks over the last two slides, the one about future seminars
          and the one about future conferences. </li>
        <li>Host asks Y if he has anything else to add, then they both thank the audience, then mute
          all. The webinar is left opened a little bit more in order for attendees to be able to ask
          additional questions. </li>
        <li>
          <p>End webinar. File -> Leave Webinar.</p>
        </li>
        <li>Eat a slice of pizza and relax, talk about what went wrong, something always does
          :)</li>
      </ul>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
