<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_c3q_lqd_vt">
  <title>How Special Paste works in Oxygen</title>
  <body>
    <p>If you've worked with one of the <b>XML</b> vocabularies for which Oxygen has out of the box
      support like <b>DITA</b>, <b>Docbook</b>, <b>TEI</b>, <b>XHTML</b> you've probably already
      used the support Oxygen has for converting content pasted in the application from external
      applications like <b>Microsoft Word</b>, <b>Excel</b> or from any <b>web browser</b>. This is
      a very useful feature for converting various types of content to XML because it preserves and
      converts styling, links, lists, tables and image references. </p>
    <p>The feature relies on the fact that when copying content in the applications mentioned above,
      they set in the clipboard the HTML equivalent of the copied content. So all Oxygen has to do
      is clean up that HTML, make it wellformed XHTML and apply conversion XSLT stylesheets over
      it.</p>
    <p>This support is not hardcoded and anybody who is developing an <xref
        href="http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2014/08/the-oxygen-sdk-part-2-frameworks.html" format="html"
        scope="external">Oxygen framework customization</xref> for a certain XML vocabulary can
      provide conversion stylesheets for external pasted HTML content.</p>
    <p>I will describe how this works for the <b>DITA</b> framework and you can do the same for
      yours. You can also use this information to modify the way in which smart paste works for the
      bundled framework configurations.<ol id="ol_hpf_cc2_vt">
        <li>In the <uicontrol>Preferences->Document Type Association</uicontrol> page you can choose
          to edit (or extend) the <b>DITA</b> document type association.</li>
        <li>In the <b>Extensions</b> tab the <b>Extensions bundle</b> implementation is set to
            <b>DITAExtensionsBundle</b> which resides in the <b>DITA</b> Java extensions archive
            <b>dita.jar</b>.</li>
        <li>The <b>DITAExtensionsBundle</b> is an extension of the <xref
            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/17.0/ug-editor/index.html#tasks/dg-extensions-bundle.html"
            format="html" scope="external"><b>ExtensionsBundle</b></xref> API and it provides its
          own external object extension
          handler:<codeblock outputclass="language-java">  /**
   * @see ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.ExtensionsBundle#createExternalObjectInsertionHandler()
   */
  @Override
  public AuthorExternalObjectInsertionHandler createExternalObjectInsertionHandler() {
    return new DITAExternalObjectInsertionHandler();
  }</codeblock></li>
        <li>The <b>DITAExternalObjectInsertionHandler</b> extends the base class <xref
            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Editor/SDK/javadoc/ro/sync/ecss/extensions/api/AuthorExternalObjectInsertionHandler.html"
            format="html" scope="external"><b>AuthorExternalObjectInsertionHandler</b></xref> and
          provides a reference to its specific conversion
            stylesheet:<codeblock outputclass="language-java">  /**
   * @see ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.AuthorExternalObjectInsertionHandler#getImporterStylesheetFileName(ro.sync.ecss.extensions.api.AuthorAccess)
   */
  @Override
  protected String getImporterStylesheetFileName(AuthorAccess authorAccess) {
    return "xhtml2ditaDriver.xsl";
  }</codeblock><note>The
              <b>Extensions</b> tab also allows you to specify the external object insertion handler
            as a separate extension.</note></li>
        <li>In the same <b>Document Type</b> edit dialog in the <b>Classpath</b> tab you will see
          that there is a reference to a framework-specific resources folder
            like:<filepath>${framework}/resources/</filepath></li>
        <li>If you look on disk in the DITA framework <b>resources</b> folder:
            <filepath>"OXYGEN_INSTALL_DIR\frameworks\dita\resources"</filepath> you will find the
            <b>xhtml2ditaDriver.xsl</b> stylesheet there. The stylesheet imports various other
          stylesheets which you could probably fully reuse and which apply various cleanups on HTML
          produced with MS Word. It also handles the conversion between the pasted HTML content and
          DITA so it is a good starting point, you can copy the entire set of XSLT stylesheets to
          your framework and use those as a starting point.</li>
      </ol></p>
  </body>
</topic>
