<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_rx2_hyv_bw">
  <title>How to Migrate from Word to DITA</title>
  <body>
    <p>Migrating <tm tmtype="reg">Microsoft Office</tm> Word documents to XML in general and to DITA
      in particular is quite a frequent encountered situation. As usual migration from proprietary
      formats to XML is never perfect and manual changes need to be made to the converted content.
      But the possibilities I'm listing below should give you some idea about finding the best
      approach in your case:<ul id="ul_ob2_yyv_bw">
        <li>Open the Word document in MS Office, select all the content and copy it. Then open
            <b>Oxygen</b>, create a new <b>DITA</b> topic in the Author visual editing mode and
          paste in it. Oxygen's <xref
            href="http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2015/10/how-special-paste-works-in-oxygen.html"
            format="html" scope="external">smart paste functionality</xref> will attempt to convert
          the HTML to DITA.</li>
        <li>MS Office has the potential to save Word documents to HTML. Once you obtain that HTML
          you have two possibilities:<ul id="ul_sfh_2zv_bw">
            <li>Use <b>Oxygen</b>'s <b>File</b> menu-><b>Import</b>-><b>HTML</b> to import the HTML
              as XHTML. Then open the XHTML in Oxygen and in the "<b>Transformation Scenarios</b>"
              view there should be 4 pre-configured transformation scenarios for converting
                <b>XHTML</b> to <b>DITA</b> topics, tasks or concepts.</li>
            <li>Open the <b>HTML</b> file in any <b>Web browser</b>, select all its content and copy
              it. Then open <b>Oxygen</b>, create a new <b>DITA</b> topic in the Author visual
              editing mode and paste in it. Oxygen's <xref
                href="http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2015/10/how-special-paste-works-in-oxygen.html"
                format="html" scope="external">smart paste functionality</xref> will attempt to
              convert the HTML to DITA.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li> Open the Word document in the free <b>Libre Office</b> application, then save it to
            <b>Docbook</b>. Then open the <b>Docbook</b> document in <b>Oxygen</b> and there is a
          predefined transformation scenario called <b>DocBook to DITA</b> which you can apply.</li>
        <li>If the Word document is in the new DOCX format you can open the DOCX in <b>Oxygen</b> in
          the <b>Archive Browser</b> view and then open the "<b>document.xml</b>" contained in the
          archive. If you press the "<b>Configure Transformation Scenario</b>" toolbar button you
          will see you have a predefined transformation scenario for it called "<b>DOCX DITA</b>".
          This <b>ANT</b> scenario runs the build
              file:<p><filepath>OXYGEN_INSTALL_DIR/frameworks/dita/DITA-OT/plugins/net.sourceforge.dita4publishers.word2dita/build-word2dita.xml</filepath></p><p>over
            the <b>DOCX</b> archive and should produce a <b>DITA</b> project with a Map and multiple
            topics. But it may also need some reconfiguring in order to map <b>DOCX</b> styles to
              <b>DITA</b> content. This would be a solution which could also be run automatically
            with scripts because it is based on the <b>DITA OT</b> and the <b>Dita For
              Publishers</b> plugins.</p></li>
      </ul></p>
  </body>
</topic>
