<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="migrateWordToDita">
  <title>How to Migrate from Word to DITA</title>
  <prolog>
    <author>Radu Coravu</author>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>The need for migrating Microsoft Office® Word documents to XML formats, and particularly to
      DITA, is quite a frequently encountered situation. As usual, migration from proprietary
      formats to XML is never perfect and manual changes need to be made to the converted content.
      However, the methods below should help you find the best approach for your particular
      case:</p>
    <section id="method_1">
      <title>Method 1</title>
      <ol>
        <li>Open the Word document in MS Office, select all the content, and copy it.</li>
        <li>Open <b>Oxygen</b> and create a new <b>DITA</b> topic in the Author visual editing mode. </li>
        <li>Paste the selected content. Oxygen's <xref
            href="http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2015/10/how-special-paste-works-in-oxygen.html"
            format="html" scope="external">smart paste functionality</xref> will attempt to convert
          the content to DITA.</li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    <section id="method_2">
      <title>Method 2</title>
      <ol>
        <li>Save your MS Office Word document as HTML.</li>
        <li>Once you obtain that HTML, you have two possibilities:<p>
            <ul>
              <li>In <b>Oxygen</b>, Select <b>File</b>-><b>Import</b>-><b>HTML File</b> to import
                the HTML as XHTML. Then open the XHTML in Oxygen and in the "<b>Transformation
                  Scenarios</b>" view there should be four pre-configured transformation scenarios
                to convert <b>XHTML</b> to <b>DITA</b> topics, tasks, references, or concepts.</li>
              <li>Open the HTML file in any Web browser, select all of its content, and copy it.
                Then open <b>Oxygen</b>, create a new <b>DITA</b> topic in the Author visual editing
                mode, and paste the selected content. Oxygen's <xref
                  href="http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2015/10/how-special-paste-works-in-oxygen.html"
                  format="html" scope="external">smart paste functionality</xref> will attempt to
                convert the HTML to DITA. </li>
            </ul>
          </p></li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    <section id="method_3">
      <title>Method 3</title>
      <p>
        <ol>
          <li>Open the Word document in the free <b>Libre Office</b> application and save it as
              <b>DocBook</b>. </li>
          <li>Open the <b>DocBook</b> document in <b>Oxygen</b>.</li>
          <li>Run the predefined transformation scenario called <b>DocBook to DITA</b>. </li>
        </ol>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="method_4">
      <title>Method 4</title>
      <p><ol>
          <li>If the Word document is in the new DOCX format you can open it in <b>Oxygen</b>'s
              <b>Archive Browser</b> view and then open the <b>document.xml</b> file contained in
            the archive.</li>
          <li>Run the predefined transformation scenario called <b>DOCX DITA</b>. This <b>ANT</b>
            scenario runs the following build file:
            OXYGEN_INSTALL_DIR/frameworks/dita/DITA-OT/plugins/net.sourceforge.dita4publishers.word2dita/build-word2dita.xml
            over the <b>DOCX</b> archive and should produce a <b>DITA</b> project that contains a
            DITA map and multiple topics. </li>
          <li>You may need to do some reconfiguring to map DOCX styles to DITA content. </li>
        </ol>Note: This method may also be helpful if you want to run it automatically with scripts,
        since it is based on the <b>DITA OT</b> and <b>Dita For Publishers</b> plugins.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
