<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_twx_tyf_2hb">
    <title>Oxygen XML Editor DITA Editing solution strong points.</title>
    <body>
        <p>We are sometimes asked which are the differentiating features between Oxygen XML Editor
            and its competitors when it comes to DITA Editing. So below I tried to list some
            differentiating features (strong points) that Oxygen has:</p>
        <ul id="ul_jvs_1zf_2hb">
            <li>User based license which allows somebody to install Oxygen on multiple computers
                (work computer, home computer) as long as they are the only ones using it: <xref
                    href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/eula.html" format="html" scope="external"
                />.</li>
            <li>Transparent pricing, prices are available on the web site: <xref
                    href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/buy.html" format="html" scope="external"/>.</li>
            <li> Great technical support. You can ask us questions <xref
                    href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/technical_support.html" format="html"
                    scope="external">via email or via the forum</xref>.</li>
            <li> Cross platform availability. Being able to run Oxygen on Windows, Mac or
                Linux.</li>
            <li><xref
                    href="http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2016/06/guided-dita-authoring-solution-overview.html"
                    format="html" scope="external"> Complete DITA Editing support:</xref><ul
                    id="ul_s35_dzf_2hb">
                    <li>Lots of pre-defined actions to insert reusable content, images, links,
                        videos.</li>
                    <li>DITA-specific helper views (<xref
                            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/21.0/ug-editor/topics/dita-maps-manager.html"
                            format="html" scope="external">DITA Maps Manager</xref>, <xref
                            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/21.0/ug-editor/topics/dita-reusable-components-view.html"
                            format="html" scope="external">DITA Reusable Components</xref>)</li>
                    <li>Support to customize the editing environment: add custom actions, remove
                        current actions, customize content completion items, create custom
                        validation or transformation scenarios.</li>
                    <li>Powerful publishing solution for producing <xref
                            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/21.0/ug-editor/topics/whr-html5-pages.html"
                            format="html" scope="external">responsive WebHelp</xref> and <xref
                            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/21.0/ug-editor/topics/pdf-css-customization.html"
                            format="html" scope="external">PDF</xref> using CSS to style the
                        output.</li>
                    <li>Publishing to output formats like Windows Help (CHM), Ms Word, EPUB, Eclipse
                        Help included.</li>
                    <li>Lots of <xref
                            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/partners.html#cmssolutionpartners"
                            format="html" scope="external">commercial DITA CMSs</xref> have
                        integrations with Oxygen.</li>
                </ul></li>
            <li>Support for change tracking and for adding comments in the editor along with a
                special <b>Review</b> view to review changes: <xref
                    href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/21.0/ug-editor/topics/author-managing-changes.html"
                    format="html" scope="external"/></li>
            <li>Support to add third party plugins and enhance Oxygen's functionality. And <xref
                    href="https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Aadd-on+org%3Aoxygenxml&amp;type=Repositories"
                    format="html" scope="external">lots of free add-ons</xref> already available to
                add support for Git integration, DITA translations and Batch conversions from
                various formats to DITA.</li>
            <li>Support to add custom validation rules based on your internal style guide. The rules
                can be implemented using the Schematron standard and you can also add quick fixes
                for them: <xref
                    href="http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2015/05/schematron-checks-to-help-technical.html"
                    format="html" scope="external"/>.</li>
            <li>Support to send DITA content to reviewers using the <xref
                    href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/content_fusion.html" format="html"
                    scope="external">Content Fusion add-on</xref>.</li>
        </ul>
    </body>
</topic>
