<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_xk5_gqk_qy">
  <title>Your first Oxygen Add-on</title>
  <body>
    <p> A <xref href="http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2014/08/the-oxygen-sdk-part-2-frameworks.html"
        format="html" scope="external">framework configuration</xref> provides validation, content
      completion and visual editing support for a certain XML vocabulary. </p>
    <p>Existing framework configurations which come bundled with <b>Oxygen</b> can be extended and
      modified. For example the <b>DITA</b> framework configuration which adds support for editing
        <b>DITA</b> documents can be modified to remove existing actions, add custom actions or
      modify lots of other behaviors: <xref
        href="http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2015/08/document-type-extension-sharing.html" format="html"
        scope="external"/>.</p>
    <p>One way of distributing framework configurations is by using Oxygen's <b>add-on</b> support:
        <xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/addons.html" format="html" scope="external"/>. An
      add-on configuration is usually composed of only two files:<ol id="ol_qb1_zvk_qy">
        <li>A ZIP file containing the zipped framework folder.</li>
        <li>
          <p>An add-on XML configuration file which references the ZIP framework folder and defines
            various properties of the add-on. A small example can be seen below:</p>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;xt:extensions xmlns:xt="http://www.oxygenxml.com/ns/extension"
    xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
    xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.oxygenxml.com/ns/extension http://www.oxygenxml.com/ns/extension/extensions.xsd">
    &lt;xt:extension id="dita-extension">
        &lt;xt:location href="dita_extension.zip"/>
        &lt;xt:version>1.0.0&lt;/xt:version>
        &lt;xt:oxy_version>18.0+&lt;/xt:oxy_version>
        &lt;xt:type>framework&lt;/xt:type>
        &lt;xt:author>Radu Coravu&lt;/xt:author>
        &lt;xt:name>DITA Extension which removes the bold action&lt;/xt:name>
        &lt;xt:description xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
            This extension removes the bold action
        &lt;/xt:description>
        &lt;xt:license>
&lt;![CDATA[
Everybody's welcomed to use this
]]&gt;&lt;/xt:license>
    &lt;/xt:extension>
&lt;/xt:extensions></codeblock>
          <p>Usually in the add-on descriptor file you need to specify:<ul id="ul_s5y_nwk_qy">
              <li>The ID of the extension.</li>
              <li>The version of the add-on.</li>
              <li>The minimum supported Oxygen version.</li>
              <li>Author name</li>
              <li>Name and description of add-on.</li>
              <li>Licensing details.</li>
            </ul></p>
        </li>
      </ol></p>
    <p>Changing the add-on version in the XML file will trigger notifications to the end user to
      install the new add-on. In this way, you can modify the framework customization in a common
      location and change the add-on version to signal all end-users who have installed the add-on
      that a new version is available.  More details about packing an add-on can be found here:<xref
        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/18.1/ug-editor/topics/packing-and-deploying-addons.html#packing-and-deploying-addons"
        format="html" scope="external"/>.</p>
    <p>If you want to test the small add-on I exemplified you can find the sample add-on resources
        here:<xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/forum/files/sample-add-on.zip" format="zip"
        scope="external"/>. Installing an add-on is straight-forward using the Oxygen <b>Help</b>
      menu -> <b>Install add-ons..</b> dialog. You can add a reference to the add on <b>XML
        descriptor</b> file which can reside either on the local hard drive or on a web server and
      Oxygen will present all available add-ons: <xref
        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/versions/18.1/ug-editor/topics/installing-and-updating-add-ons.html"
        format="html" scope="external"/></p>
    <p>The add-ons support can also be used to <xref
        href="http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2013/11/the-oxygen-sdk-part-1-plugins.html" format="html"
        scope="external">install Oxygen plugins</xref>. Some of the public hosted Oxygen plugins and
      frameworks are also available as add-ons:<xref
        href="http://blog.oxygenxml.com/2014/11/public-hosted-oxygen-plugin-and.html" format="html"
        scope="external"/>.</p>
    <p>In conclusion, if you want to share Oxygen customizations with others, you should try the
      add-on approach, it is a better approach to manually distributing frameworks and plugins.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
