<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="test">
  <title>Oxygen Authoring Tips and Tricks</title>
  <body>
    <p>Actually when I started writing on the Oxygen XML Blog, back in 2013 I wanted to have my
      first blog post about Oxygen Tips and Tricks but I somehow never got around to it. Now the
      time has come.</p>
    <p>These are a few of the minor (and sometimes hidden) features which might bring significant
      usability features when editing in the visual Author editing mode:<ol id="ol_rf5_zkl_14">
        <li>[General Editing]: <b>Triple click to select.</b> Triple click the text content of a
          certain XML element to select the entire element. Afterwards you can easily cut/copy or
          move it.</li>
        <li>[General Editing]: <b>Move up and down to re-arrange content.</b> Use the <b>[Alt-UP]
          </b>and <b>[Alt-Down]</b> keyboard shortcuts to move paragraphs, list items or any other
          kind of block like elements up or down in the parent container.</li>
        <li>[General Editing]: <b>Code Templates.</b> In the Oxygen Preferences-><b>Editor /
            Templates / Code Templates</b> page you can define code templates for inserting small
          and often used pieces of XML inside the XML document (either in the Text or in the Author
          editing modes). A code template can have inside it a wide selection of <xref
            href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-editor/index.html#topics/editor-variables.html"
            format="html" scope="external">editor variables</xref> among which the special
            <b>${caret}</b> and <b>${selection}</b> editor variables which allow you to define where
          the caret will be placed after the template is inserted and how the existing selection
          will be placed in the newly inserted XML fragment.</li>
        <li>[General Editing]: <b>Symbols toolbar.</b> Go to the <b>Window</b> menu-><b>Configure
            Toolbars...</b> and show the <b>Symbols</b> toolbar in order to define and easily insert
          a set of most used character symbols.</li>
        <li>[General Editing]: <b>Middle mouse button click to close editor tab.</b> Click using the
          middle mouse button on an opened editor's tab to close it.</li>
        <li>[DITA/Docbook/TEI/XHTML]: <b>Copy/paste resources to create links.</b> Copy a resource
          (XML file, binary/image file) in the Project view or in the DITA Maps Manager view or in
          the operating system's file system browser (Windows Explorer on Windows or Finder on Mac
          OSX) and then paste it in an XML document opened in the Author visual editing mode in
          Oxygen. A proper link (or image reference if it is the case) to that resource will be
          inserted. The same functionality applies to drag and drop.</li>
        <li>[DITA/Docbook/TEI/XHTML]: <b>Convert content on paste (Smart paste).</b> Paste content
          from an office application (MS Office, Libre or Open Office), a web browser or from a
          spreadsheet (Excel, Calc) and then paste it inside an XML document opened in Oxygen in the
          Author visual editing mode. The content will be converted to the proper target XML
          vocabulary and inserted inside.</li>
        <li>[DITA]: <b>Paste as link/keyref or as content (key) reference.</b> Assign an ID to an
          XML element from a DITA topic. Select and copy that element. Then open the referencing
          topic, right click inside and look in the <b>Paste special</b> menu.</li>
        <li>[DITA]: <b>Use Subject Scheme Maps to control attribute values.</b> You can control
          profiling attributes (and any other kind of attribute) values by associating a Subject
          Scheme Map to the DITA Map you are editing. <xref
            href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/doc/ug-editor/index.html#topics/subject-scheme-map.html"
            format="html" scope="external">More details...</xref>
          <xref href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/demo/DITA_Subject_Scheme.html" format="html"
            scope="external">Video demonstration...</xref></li>
      </ol></p>
    <p>Off the top of my head, these are the tips I can up with so far. Do you have any other
      features that you've discovered and use daily when editing with Oxygen?</p>
  </body>
</topic>
