<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="translating_your_dita_project">
  <title>Translating your DITA Project</title>
  <body>
    <p>Usually when working with a <b>DITA</b>-based project you can either store the project
      contents using a <b>Content Management System (CMS)</b> or some open-source version control
      system like <b>Git</b> or <b>SVN</b>. <b>CMSs</b> usually come with their own translation
      support so this blog post it mostly for end users who use <b>Git</b> or <b>SVN</b> to store
      and collaborate on their <b>DITA</b> project.</p>
    <section id="section_olv_ynp_rdb"><title>Choosing a Translation Agency</title><p>Ideally your
        translation agency should be able to handle <b>DITA</b> content directly, without you
        needing to convert the <b>DITA</b> to some intermediary format. This means that you will
        have the full benefit of <b>DITA</b> reuse features to minimize translation costs.</p><p>As
        a very important rule, if you plan to translate your project you should get in touch with a
          <b>DITA</b>-aware translation agency very early in your project's timeline. Reliable
        translation agencies that translate <b>DITA</b> content directly (for example <xref
          href="http://www.whp.net/en/dita-localization/" format="html" scope="external">WHP</xref>)
        usually need to have a preliminary discussion with you about how the project is structured,
        what terms need to be skipped when translating, how various measuring units are translated,
        content reuse, taxonomy, and the handling of screenshots that appear in your <b>DITA</b>
        content. So the way that you write your <b>DITA</b> content will be influenced by your
        discussion with the translation agency.</p>If your translation agency does not directly
      handle <b>DITA</b> content, there are commercial tools that can be used to convert <b>DITA</b>
      to <b>XLiff</b>: <xref href="https://www.maxprograms.com/products/fluenta.html" format="html"
        scope="external"/>.</section>
    <section id="section_lwt_rkp_rdb">
      <title>Optimizing Content for Translation</title>
      <p>In general, there are three main principles to take into account when writing <b>DITA</b>
        content that will be translated at some point:<ol id="ol_axv_wkp_rdb">
          <li>Use a controlled vocabulary (usually the <xref
              href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simplified_Technical_English" format="html"
              scope="external">Simplified Technical English vocabulary</xref>).</li>
          <li>Avoid reusing inline elements other than product names. The following <i>DITA Users
              List</i> discussion describes the reasons for this: <xref
              href="https://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/dita/201301/msg00029.html" format="html"
              scope="external"/>.</li>
          <li>Avoid profiling/filtering content at inline level. For the same reasons as (2).</li>
        </ol>You can read more about this in the following article: <xref
          href="https://www.infomanagementcenter.com/publications/best-practices-newsletter/2010-best-practices-newsletter/successful-localization-in-dita/"
          format="html" scope="external"/>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_hlq_cmp_rdb">
      <title>General DITA Project Structure</title>
      <p>Usually you need to keep a folder that contains all your <b>DITA</b> maps/topics in English
        and have separate folders for other languages with equivalent <b>DITA</b> topics translated
        in that specific language. This article could be useful: <xref
          href="http://www.ditatranslation.com/articles/organize_files.html" format="html"
          scope="external"/>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_pqy_rlp_rdb">
      <title>General Translation Workflow</title>
      <p>When translating <b>DITA</b> content, the most common process involves these steps:<ol
          id="ol_rwf_sz4_rdb">
          <li>You create your content in the primary language using a <b>DITA</b> authoring tool
              (<b>Oxygen XML Editor</b>).</li>
          <li>Before each release, you gather all the <b>DITA</b> topics that have been changed and
            need to be translated. The Oxygen <xref
              href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/oxygen-dita-translation-package-builder"
              format="html" scope="external">Translation Package Builder</xref> plugin might be
            handy for this.</li>
          <li>Send a copy of the relevant <b>DITA</b> files to the translation agency (known also as
            "localisation service provider").</li>
          <li>Receive translated <b>DITA</b> content back from the translation agency and integrate
            it in each language-specific project folder.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_ipw_qrp_rdb">
      <title>Liability</title>
      <p>So who is responsible for a bad translation that may produce damage to a client following a
        set of mis-translated steps? From my discussions with translation service providers, the
        translation agencies do not assume any liability for incorrectly translated content. Usually
        a company that needs to translate their <b>DITA</b> content in multiple languages has
        regional headquarters in various countries and somebody from the company's regional
        headquarters would be responsible to review and accept the translated content as
        appropriate. </p>
    </section>
    <p>This concludes my <b>DITA</b> translation overview. As we do not translate the Oxygen User's
      Manual in various languages, our internal knowledge of translating <b>DITA</b> content is
      quite limited so any feedback on this small article is welcomed.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
