<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept id="oxygen-processing-instruction">
    <title><?oxy_comment_start author="Steven" timestamp="20160808T161624+0300" comment="Content merged into &quot;adding-a-processing-instruction.dita&quot; and this one moved to not_used folder."?>Associate
    Schema with <codeph>xml-model</codeph> Processing Instruction<?oxy_comment_end?></title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>XML documents<indexterm>Associate schema with xml-model processing
            instruction</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Associate schema with xml-model processing instruction</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
    <conbody>
        <p>The <codeph>xml-model</codeph> processing instruction associates a schema with the XML
            document that contains the processing instruction. It must be added at the beginning of
            the document, just after the XML prologue. The following code snippet contains an
                <codeph>xml-model</codeph> processing instruction declaration:</p>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;?xml-model href="../schema.sch" type="application/xml"
 schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron" phase="ALL"
 title="Main schema"?&gt;</codeblock>
        <p>It is available in the <xref
        href="../topics/streamline-with-content-completion.dita#streamline-with-content-completion"
        format="dita">Content Completion Assistant</xref>, before XML document root element, and
      includes the following attributes:</p>
        <ul>
            <li><codeph>href</codeph> (required) - The schema file location.</li>
            <li><codeph>type</codeph> - The content type of the schema. This is an optional
        attribute with the following possible values for each specified type:<ul>
          <li>DTD - The recommended value is <codeph>application/xml-dtd</codeph>.</li>
          <li>W3C XML Schema - The recommended value is <codeph>application/xml</codeph>, or can be
            left unspecified.</li>
          <li>RELAX NG XML Syntax - The recommended value is <codeph>application/xml</codeph>, or
            can be left unspecified.</li>
          <li>RELAX NG Compact Syntax - The recommended value is
              <codeph>application/relax-ng-compact-syntax</codeph>.</li>
          <li>Schematron - The recommended value is <codeph>application/xml</codeph>, or can be left
            unspecified.</li>
          <li>NVDL - The recommended value is <codeph>application/xml</codeph>, or can be left
            unspecified.</li>
        </ul></li>
            <li><codeph>schematypens</codeph> - The namespace for the schema language of the
        referenced schema with the following possible values:<ul>
          <li>DTD - Not specified.</li>
          <li>W3C XML Schema - The recommended value is
              <codeph>http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema</codeph>.</li>
          <li>RELAX NG XML Syntax - The recommended value is
              <codeph>http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0</codeph>.</li>
          <li>RELAX NG Compact Syntax - Not specified.</li>
          <li>Schematron - The recommended value is
              <codeph>http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron</codeph>.</li>
          <li>NVDL - The recommended value is
              <codeph>http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/nvdl/ns/structure/1.0</codeph>.</li>
        </ul></li>
            <li><codeph>phase</codeph> - The phase name for the validation function in Schematron
        schema. This is an optional attribute. To run all phases from the Schematron, use the
        special <userinput>#ALL</userinput> value. If the phase is not specified, the default phase
        that is configured in the Schematron will be applied.</li>
            <li><codeph>title</codeph> - The title for the associated schema. This is an optional
        attribute.</li>
        </ul>
        <p>Older versions of  <ph keyref="product"/> used the <codeph>oxygen</codeph> processing instruction
            with the following attributes:</p>
        <ul>
            <li><codeph>RNGSchema</codeph> - Specifies the path to the Relax NG schema that is
        associated with the current document.</li>
            <li><codeph>type</codeph> - Specifies the type of Relax NG schema. It is used along with
        the <codeph>RNGSchema</codeph> attribute and can have the value <userinput>xml</userinput>
        or <userinput>compact</userinput>.</li>
            <li><codeph>NVDLSchema</codeph> - Specifies the path to the NVDL schema that is
        associated with the current document.</li>
            <li><codeph>SCHSchema</codeph> - Specifies the path to the SCH schema that is associated
        with the current document.</li>
        </ul>
        <note>Documents that use the <codeph>oxygen</codeph> processing instruction are compatible
            with newer versions of <ph
                keyref="product"/>.</note>
    </conbody>
</concept>
