<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ai-positron-vertex-ai-connector">
  <title>Oxygen AI Positron Vertex AI Connector Add-on</title>
  <body>
    <p>The <b>Oxygen AI Positron Vertex AI Connector</b> add-on allows you to connect the <b>Oxygen
        AI Positron</b> add-on with <b>Vertex AI</b> from Google Cloud. <note>The <b>Oxygen AI
          Positron Vertex AI Connector</b> add-on is compatible with <b>Oxygen XML
          Editor/Author/Developer</b> version 27.1 or newer. </note></p>
    <section id="section_kgh_fzg_rab">
      <title>Installation</title>
      <p>To install this add-on, follow these steps: <ol>
          <li>Go to <menucascade>
              <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Install new add-ons</uicontrol>
            </menucascade> to open the add-on selection dialog box. Enter or paste
              <b>https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Addons/default/updateSite.xml</b> in the
              <uicontrol>Show add-ons from</uicontrol> field or select it from the drop-down menu. </li>
          <li>Select the <b>Oxygen AI Positron Vertex AI Connector</b> add-on and click
              <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol>. </li>
          <li conkeyref="reusables-addons/ReadLicense-li"/>
          <li conkeyref="reusables-addons/Restart-li"/>
        </ol></p>
      <p><b>Result:</b> The <uicontrol>Connections</uicontrol> table in the <menucascade>
          <uicontrol>Plugins</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Oxygen AI Positron Enterprise</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>AI Service Configuration</uicontrol>
        </menucascade> preferences page is extended with a <uicontrol>Vertex AI Service</uicontrol>
        connector type that you can use when creating a new connection.</p>
      <p>Alternatively, you can install the add-on by downloading the JAR file from the <xref
          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/Addons/default/com/oxygenxml/oxygen-ai-positron-vertex-ai-connector-addon/"
          format="html" scope="external">Releases page</xref> and unzipping it inside
          <filepath>{oXygenInstallDir}/plugins</filepath>. Ensure there are no intermediate folders
        and that the <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath> file is present in the correct location.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_kgh_fzg_rac">
      <title>How to Configure a Vertex AI Service Connection</title>
      <p>To configure a <uicontrol>Vertex AI Service</uicontrol> connection, open the <uicontrol>AI
          Service Configuration</uicontrol> preferences page and click <uicontrol>Add</uicontrol> in
        the <uicontrol>Connections</uicontrol> table. In the <uicontrol>Add Connection</uicontrol>
        dialog box, select <uicontrol>Vertex AI Service</uicontrol> from the <uicontrol>Connector
          type</uicontrol> combo box. The following configuration options are available: <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Project ID</dt>
            <dd>The ID of your Google Cloud project. </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Location</dt>
            <dd>The location of your Google Cloud project (e.g., <codeph>us-central1</codeph>).
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Model</dt>
            <dd>The AI model to use (e.g., <codeph>google/gemini-2.5-flash</codeph>). </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Credential</dt>
            <dd>The content of the Google credential JSON file. The connector supports using a
              service account key file for authentication. If this field is left empty, the
              application will use <b>Google Cloud’s Application Default Credentials</b> (<xref
                href="https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/application-default-credentials"
                format="html" scope="external">documentation</xref>), searching for credentials in
              the following locations: <ul>
                <li><codeph>GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS</codeph> environment variable.</li>
                <li>The attached service account.</li>
              </ul></dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
