<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ai-positron-eclipse-installation">
  <title>Installation, Licensing and Configuration</title>
  <body>
    <section id="installation">
      <title>Installation - Zip Archive Method</title>
      <p conkeyref="reusables-ai-plugin/p_install-note" id="p_gnp_b4q_jfc"/>
      <p id="p_orn_rf4_cfc">To install the plugin using the <i>Zip Archive</i> method, follow this
          procedure:<ol id="ol_prn_rf4_cfc">
          <li id="li_qrn_rf4_cfc">Download the <xref
              href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/ai_positron_eclipse/installation.html" format="html"
              scope="external">Oxygen AI Positron for Eclipse archive</xref>.</li>
          <li id="li_rrn_rf4_cfc">Extract the archive's contents into the
              <filepath>dropins</filepath> folder located within your Eclipse installation
            directory.</li>
          <li id="li_srn_rf4_cfc">Restart Eclipse.</li>
        </ol></p>
      <p id="p_orn_rf4_afkal"><b>Result:</b> The <uicontrol>AI Positron</uicontrol> side
        view is now available. If the view is not displayed, it can be opened by selecting it from <menucascade>
          <uicontrol>Window</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Show View</uicontrol>
        </menucascade>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="update_site_method">
      <title>Installation - Update Site Method</title>
      <p conkeyref="reusables-ai-plugin/p_install-note" id="p_nw2_c4q_jfc"/>
      <p id="p_msm_bgk_54b">To install the plugin using the <i>Update Site</i> method, follow this
          procedure:<ol id="ol_nsm_bgk_54b">
          <li id="li_osm_bgk_54b">Start Eclipse.</li>
          <li id="li_psm_bgk_54b">Go to <menucascade>
              <uicontrol>Help</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Install New Software</uicontrol>
            </menucascade>.</li>
          <li id="li_qsm_bgk_54b">Click <uicontrol>Add</uicontrol> in the resulting dialog box.</li>
          <li id="li_rsm_bgk_54b">In the <uicontrol>Location</uicontrol> field, enter
              <filepath>https://www.oxygenxml.com/InstData/AI-Positron/Eclipse/site.xml</filepath>.
            The <uicontrol>Name</uicontrol> field accepts any value. Click
              <uicontrol>Add</uicontrol> when finished.</li>
          <li id="li_tsm_bgk_54b">Select the checkbox next to the <b>Oxygen AI Positron</b> plugin
            and click <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol>.</li>
          <li>Select the <b>Oxygen AI Positron</b> plugin and click
              <uicontrol>Finish</uicontrol>.</li>
          <li id="li_vsm_bgk_54b">Restart Eclipse when prompted.</li>
        </ol></p>
      <p id="p_orn_rf4"><b>Result:</b> The <uicontrol>AI Positron</uicontrol> side view is
        now available. If the view is not displayed, it can be opened by selecting it from <menucascade>
          <uicontrol>Window</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Show View</uicontrol>
        </menucascade>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="direct_ai_engine_licensing">
      <title>Licensing and Configuration</title>
      <p id="p_wyy_vf4_cfc">You can configure the company-specific AI service details in the <xref
          href="ai-positron-eclipse-preferences.dita#ai-positron-eclipse-preferences/ai_service_configuration"
            ><uicontrol>AI Service Configuration Preferences Page</uicontrol></xref>. </p>
      <p id="p_xyy_vf4_cfc">The <uicontrol>AI Positron</uicontrol> plugin works free of charge with
        any <b>Oxygen</b> installation using an <b>Enterprise</b> license type for <b>Oxygen</b>. </p>
      <p id="p_yyy_vf4_cfc">If your license of <b>Oxygen</b> is not an <b>Enterprise</b> license,
          <xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/ai_positron_eclipse/buy.html?licenseType=enterprise"
          format="html" scope="external">a special license key</xref> needs to be purchased for the
        plugin to enable this direct access. You can use the <uicontrol>Register</uicontrol> button
        in the <uicontrol>AI Positron</uicontrol> side view to configure the special license
        key.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
