<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="autocompletion_preferences">
<title>AI Autocompletion Preferences</title>
<body>
      <p id="p_gl5_55h_fhc">
        <dl id="dl_bzc_hvh_fhc">
          <dlentry id="dlentry_czc_hvh_fhc">
            <dt>Enable AI Autocompletion in Text page</dt>
            <dd>Enables context-aware code snippet suggestions in the editor. When this option is
              selected, AI Positron provides intelligent autocompletion based on the current file
              content and structure.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_tsk_pvh_fhc">
            <dt>Model</dt>
            <dd>Specifies which AI model is used for generating autocompletion suggestions. Each
            model consumes a certain number of credits per token.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_iw5_wcn_ghc">
            <dt>Include associated instance structure in prompt</dt>
            <dd>Controls whether or not the AI Autocompletion action includes the structure of the
              input document in the prompt. When enabled (default), the included structure comes
              from the following, depending on the document type:<ul id="ul_r1z_kdn_ghc">
                <li id="li_s1z_kdn_ghc">For XSLT and XQuery, it includes the structure of the XML
                  document associated in the transformation scenario.</li>
                <li id="li_jqv_12n_ghc">For schemas (XSD, Schematron, DTD, RNG, RNC), it includes
                  the structure of the instance that has the schema associated in a validation
                  scenario.</li>
              </ul></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry id="dlentry_oyb_svh_fhc">
            <dt>Editor Types</dt>
            <dd>This table displays all the supported <b>Oxygen</b> editor types where AI
              Autocompletion can be activated. Use the checkboxes in this table to select which
              editors should have AI Autocompletion enabled.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
    </body>
</topic>