<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_ztb_y2s_xrb">
    <title>Deploying <ph keyref="product"/> in a Docker container</title>
    <body>
        <p>It is a common practice to use Docker containers to deploy <ph keyref="product"/>. This
            topic contains some advice on how to create a custom Docker image.</p>
        <section id="section_gnv_qhs_xrb">
            <title>HTTP configuration</title>
            <p>The HTTP / HTTPS ports of the container must be exposed.</p>
            <p>One of the benefits of using Docker containers is that you can deploy multiple
                instances of <ph keyref="product"/> to provide high availability. In this case, you
                may want to consult our documentation about <xref
                    href="../topics/webapp-loadbalancing.dita">running <ph keyref="product"/> behind
                    a load balancer</xref>.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_yrk_5fs_xrb">
            <title>Configuration</title>
            <p>The server configuration that one can change using the administration page is stored
                in the <xref href="../topics/wa-oxygen-data-dir.dita">Data Directory</xref>. If you
                want to persist some of this configuration when containers are removed, you can map
                parts of this directory it to a volume.</p>
            <p>Alternatively, you can add the initial configuration of the server as part of the
                file system of the Docker image.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_tg2_vgs_xrb">
            <title>Licensing</title>
            <p>The license server has some protections built in to prevent users from duplicating a
                deployment with the same license. As a result, we do not support deploying it in a
                Docker container.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_u5f_zgs_xrb">
            <title>Logging</title>
            <p><ph keyref="product"/> is configure to log to both standard output and to a file, so
                you will be able to use the standard Docker commands to obtain the logs.</p>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
