<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_xq5_mt5_xcb">
    <title>Accessibility Support in Oxygen</title>
    <body>
        <p>Our company is dedicated to developing software products that are usable for everyone
            including those with physical challenges and disabilities. Oxygen XML was designed to
            adhere to the U.S. Government Section 508 accessibility standards: <xref
                href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/xml_editor/section508.html" format="html"
                scope="external"/></p>
        <p>If you have low vision, the Oxygen <b>Preferences->Fonts</b> page allows you to adjust
            the font styles and sizes used in the entire application, both for the editing areas and
            for the UI labels. If you have color blindness you can also adjust most of the colors
            used in Oxygen either by changing the current color theme from the
                <b>Preferences->Appearance</b> page or my searching in the <b>Preferences</b> dialog
            for all color-related settings. </p>
        <p>If you are using a text to speech narrator, as a Java application Oxygen works and is
            periodically tested on Windows using the JAWS screen reader: <xref
                href="http://www.freedomscientific.com/Products/Blindness/JAWS" format="html"
                scope="external"/>.</p>
        <p>You first need to enable the Java access bridge in Oxygen in order for JAWS to work.</p>
        <p><xref
                href="http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/access/enable_and_test.html"
                format="html" scope="external"
                >http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/access/enable_and_test.html</xref></p>
        <p>As Oxygen comes with its own Java VM bundled, you need to open a console in the "jre"
            folder bundled with Oxygen and run the command:</p>
        <pre>D:\PATH\TO\OXYGEN_INSTALLATION_FOLDER\jre>bin\jabswitch -enable</pre>
        <p>You will receive notification in the console that the access bridge has been enabled.</p>
        <p>Once the Java access bridge is enabled, if the JAWS narrator is active, when Oxygen will
            start up the narrator will start reading content from Oxygen and allow you to interact
            with the application, read menus, content from opened XML documents and UI components
            from dialogs and side views.</p>
        <p>Here are a few hints for using Oxygen if you are visually impaired:<ul
                id="ul_owd_cv5_xcb">
                <li>The top main menu should contain most of the actions that you need to open, save
                    and close documents, switch between opened documents or switch between the
                    various editing modes for already opened XML documents.<ul id="ul_hyq_hv5_xcb">
                        <li>The <uicontrol>File</uicontrol> menu allows you to open, save or close
                            the current edited XML document.</li>
                        <li>The <uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol> menu contains actions to undo/redo or
                            cut/copy/paste content. They have the usual shortcuts which can be used
                            instead of directly invoking the actions from the menu.</li>
                        <li>The <uicontrol>Find</uicontrol> menu allows you to show the
                                <uicontrol>Find/Replace</uicontrol> dialog. Sometimes the
                                <b>JAWS</b> narrator overloads the <b>CTRL-F</b> shortcut and
                            presents its own find-replace window but using Oxygen's Find/Replace
                            dialog should allow you to perform complex find/replace operations in
                            the opened file.</li>
                        <li>In the <b>Options</b> menu you have access to the <b>Preferences</b>
                            dialog containing global application settings and to the <b>Menu
                                Shortcut Keys</b> table which allows you to configure shortcuts for
                            the most used actions.</li>
                        <li>The <b>Window</b> menu allows you to switch between opened XML
                            documents. Using the <b>Show view</b> submenu you can show a particular
                            side view and give focus to it.</li>
                    </ul></li>
                <li>An opened XML document can be edited with accessibility support either in the
                        <b>Text</b> editing mode (in which the XML tags are accessible in the edited
                    content) or in the <b>Author</b> editing mode which hides the XML tags and
                    presents only the text content. You can switch between these editing modes by
                    using the <uicontrol>Document->Edit Mode</uicontrol> menu.<ul
                        id="ul_jgk_nk1_ycb">
                        <li>Editing in the <b>Text</b> editing mode you have access to the entire
                            document <b>XML</b> contents like you have in any text editing
                            application. In addition, using the <b>Window</b> main menu-><b>Show
                                view</b> you can focus on the <b>Attributes</b>, <b>Elements</b> and
                                <b>Outline</b> view. The <b>Attributes</b> view presents the
                            existing and possible attributes which can be inserted in an XML tag.
                            The <b>Elements</b> view shows you the list of XML elements which can be
                            inserted at caret position, pressing F2 on a selected element presents
                            its annotation. The <b>Outline</b> view shows the current path in the
                            XML structure.</li>
                        <li>The <b>Author</b> view is quite useful for reviewing written XML content
                            because it has support for change tracking and for adding comments.
                            Editing in the <b>Author</b> visual editing mode you have access only to
                            the text content in the XML document. Pressing <b>Shift-F2</b> will read
                            to you the location in the XML structure. Or you can again use the
                                <b>Outline</b> view for this. In the <b>Author</b> editing mode you
                            can also use the <b>Attributes</b> and <b>Elements</b> views similar to
                            using them in the <b>Text</b> editing mode. Pressing <b>ENTER</b> in the
                                <b>Author</b> visual editing mode can also be used to present the
                            set of allowed elements at the current position.</li>
                    </ul></li>
            </ul></p>
    </body>
</topic>
