<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="integrate-ibm-plugin">
  <title><?oxy_comment_start author="steven_higgs" timestamp="20150914T114843+0300" comment="This topic has been created and proofread but it was decided to yet not include it in the UG. It is placed in the &quot;future_topics&quot; folder in case we want to add it in the future.  It would probably be added as a sibling to &quot;Implementing OAuth Authentication in a GitHub Integration&quot;."?>Integrate
    IBM Content Navigator Plugin<?oxy_comment_end?></title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>WebApp <indexterm>integrate IBM Content Navigator plugin</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>You can integrate an <i>IBM Content Navigator</i> with the <ph keyref="webapp"/>. The
      integration consists of two plugins. The first one is a plugin for the <i>IBM Content
        Navigator</i>, which contributes an "Open" action that launches <ph keyref="webapp"/> for
      supported XML files. The second one allows <ph keyref="webapp"/> to connect to <i>IBM FileNet
        P8</i> to access files.</p>
    <section>
      <title>Installing the IBM Content Navigator Plugin</title>
      <p>To enable this you need to use the plugin located in the
          <filepath>icn-plugin.jar</filepath> file. To install the plugin, use the following
        instructions:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Open the Administration Desktop and go to the <i>plug-ins</i> tab. It lists all the
          plugins that are already installed in your environment.</li>
        <li>Click <i>New Plug-in</i> and specify the path of the plugin. </li>
        <li>Click <i>Load</i>.</li>
        <li>Configure the <uicontrol>oXygen Webapp URL</uicontrol> to point to the location where
            <ph keyref="webapp"/> is deployed.</li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Installing the <ph keyref="webapp"/> Plugin</title>
      <p>Deploy the <ph keyref="webapp"/> following the instruction <xref
          href="http://www.oxygenxml.com/oxygen_webapp_running_and_testing.html" format="html"
          scope="external">here</xref>. Look in the Tomcat console for a message like:</p>
      <codeblock>Loading plugins from: /usr/local/tomcat/webapps/oxygen-webapp/work/.../plugins</codeblock>
      <p>Unzip the <filepath>oxygen-webapp-ibm-plugin-17.1-SNAPSHOT-plugin.jar</filepath> file in
        this folder and restart Tomcat.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Using the Integration</title>
      <p>Every time you open a file that is supported by <ph keyref="webapp"/>, it will open in a
        new window in the editor. The behavior depends on the version status of the document, as follows:<ul>
          <li>Superseded Versions - The file will be opened in read-only mode.</li>
          <li>Released Versions - The file will be opened in read-write mode. Saving the file is not
            allowed unless the file is checked out (you can use the <uicontrol>Check out</uicontrol>
            action on the toolbar). If you check out the file after it was opened, the <i>Save</i>
            action will start working.<note>If you plan to make changes to a document, you are
              strongly encouraged to check out the file as soon as possible. In fact, it is best is
              to check it out before opening it in the application.</note></li>
        </ul></p>
      <p>When you save a checked-out file, you actually save the content of the "Reserved" version
        of the document. When you are happy with your changes, you can use the <i>IBM Content
          Navigator</i> interface to check it in using the following instructions:</p>
      <p>
        <ol>
          <li>Invoke the contextual menu and choose <uicontrol>Check in</uicontrol>.</li>
          <li>In the <uicontrol>What do you want to save?</uicontrol> combo box, choose
              <i>Information about the document</i> (the content is already saved).</li>
          <li>Provide the requested information in the displayed form.</li>
          <li>Click <uicontrol>Check in</uicontrol>.</li>
        </ol>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
