<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="enable-massive-contributions">
  <title>Enable massive contributions with oXygen XML Web Author and GitHub</title>
  <prolog>
    <copyright>
      <copyryear year="2016"/>
      <copyrholder>Syncro Soft SRL</copyrholder>
    </copyright>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>Early in 2016 a new product was added to the oXygen XML set of tools - the <xref
        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/webauthor/" format="html" scope="external">oXygen XML Web
        Author</xref>. This leverages the power of oXygen XML Author - which basically runs on the
      server side - and provides access to XML authoring from any modern device that supports a
      browser capable of rendering HTML5+JavaScript, including desktops and mobile devices, like
      your smart phone or tablet!</p>
    <p>The real power of web-based XML authoring can be seen when it is integrated as part of an
      workflow, simplifying it by reducing a large number of steps to a few - and this is what the
      GitHub connector provides!</p>
    <p>If you have XML content on GitHub then you can provide a link that will open a file for
      editing in the oXygen XML Web Author and anyone will be able to review or update that just by
      accessing the link and saving - a GitHub account is of course required.</p>
    <p>When you save a file, assuming you do not have commit access on that repository, the GitHub
      connector will automatically <ul id="ul_ok5_fpd_jw">
        <li>fork the project into your account, if you do not have a fork already</li>
        <li>create a new branch from the edited branch</li>
        <li>commit your changes on this newly created branch</li>
        <li>create a pull request from your newly created branch to the originally edited
          branch</li>
        <li>switch the editor to your branch, so further save operations will just add new commits
          to your branch, thus updating the pull request with new changes</li>
      </ul>This is a great simplification of the contribution process, a contributor just follows a
      link and saves the file, and all the magic happens automatically to create the pull
      request.</p>
    <p>If the XML source is published then it is possible to include an <q>Edit this page</q> link
      on the published format that will allow immediate access to the editor. An example of such
      access is provided for the <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/docs" format="html"
        scope="external">DITA-OT documentation</xref> project. The development brunch is published
      at <xref href="http://www.dita-ot.org/dev/" format="html" scope="external"/> and every page
      contains at the bottom an <q>Edit this page</q> link that gives immediate access to the DITA
      topic that page is generated from.  For example, the <xref
        href="http://www.dita-ot.org/dev/user-guide/DITA_v1-3-support.html" format="html"
        scope="external"/> page shows the DITA 1.3 support in DITA-OT and the <q>Edit this page</q>
      link will get you to <xref
        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/webapp-demo-aws/app/oxygen.html?url=github%3A%2F%2FgetFileContent%2Fdita-ot%2Fdocs%2Fdevelop%2Fuser-guide%2FDITA_v1-3-support.dita&amp;ditamap=github%3A%2F%2FgetFileContent%2Fdita-ot%2Fdocs%2Fdevelop%2Fuserguide-book.ditamap"
        format="html" scope="external">edit the DITA_v1-3-support.dita topic</xref>.</p>
    <p>Edit, then save, and a pull request with your changes will be automatically generated -
      contribution cannot be easier than this!</p>
    <p>Next we plan to have the <q>Edit this page</q> option for the oXygen documentation, which is
      also hosted on GitHub at <xref href="https://github.com/oxygenxml/userguide" format="html"
        scope="external"/>.</p>
    <p>Hope you find this useful!</p>
    <p><xref href="https://twitter.com/georgebina" format="html" scope="external">George</xref></p>
  </body>
</topic>
