<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="author_component_troubleshooting">
  <title><?oxy_comment_start author="Steven" timestamp="20190307T120859+0200" comment="Moved to not_used folder because the web applet method is no longer used (EXM-43068)"?>Troubleshooting
    the Applet<?oxy_comment_end?></title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Oxygen XML Author Component<indexterm>Web deployment<indexterm>Applet
              troubleshooting</indexterm></indexterm>
        </indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>When the applet fails to start:<ol>
        <li>Make sure that your web browser really runs the next generation Java plugin and not the
          legacy Java plugin.<p>For Windows and OS X the procedure is straight forward. Some steps
            are given below for installing the Java plugin on Linux.</p><p>Manual Installation and
            Registration of Java Plugin for Linux: <xref
              href="http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/manual-plugin-install-linux-136395.html"
              format="html" scope="external"/></p></li>
        <li>Refresh the web page.</li>
        <li>Remove the Java Webstart cache from the local drive and try again.<ul>
            <li>On Windows this folder is located in:
                <filepath>%APPDATA%\LocalLow\Sun\Java\Deployment\cache</filepath>.</li>
            <li>On OS X this folder is located in:
                <filepath>/Users/user_name/Library/Caches/Java/cache</filepath>.</li>
            <li>On Linux this folder is located in:
                <filepath>/home/user/.java/deployment/cache</filepath>.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Remove the <ph keyref="authorComponent"/> cache from the local drive and try again:<ul>
            <li>On Windows Vista/7/8/10 this folder is located in:
                <filepath>%APPDATA%\Roaming\com.oxygenxml.author.component</filepath>.</li>
            <li>On Windows XP this folder is located in:
                <filepath>%APPDATA%\com.oxygenxml.author.component</filepath>.</li>
            <li>On OS X this folder is located in:
                <filepath>/Users/user_name/Library/Preferences/com.oxygenxml.author.component</filepath>.</li>
            <li>On Linux this folder is located in:
                <filepath>/home/user/.com.oxygenxml.author.component</filepath>.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Problems sometimes occur after upgrading the web browser and/or the JavaTM runtime.
          Redeploy the applet on the server by running Ant in your <ph keyref="authorComponent"/>
          project. However, doing this does not always fix the problem, which often lies in the web
          browser and/or in the Java plugin itself.</li>
        <li>Sometimes when the HTTP connection is slow on first time uses the JVM would simply shut
          down while the <term>JARS</term> were being pushed to the local cache (for example, first
          time uses). This shut down typically occurs while handling
          <filepath>oxygen.jar</filepath>. One of the reasons could be that some browsers (Firefox,
          for example) implement some form of "Plugin hang detector" See <xref
            href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en/Plugins/Out_of_process_plugins/The_plugin_hang_detector"
            format="html" scope="external"/>.</li>
        <li>If you are running the Applet using Safari on OS X and it has problems writing to disk
          or fails to start, do the following:<ul>
            <li>In Safari, go to <b>Safari</b>-><b>Preferences</b>-><b>Security</b>.</li>
            <li>Select <b>Manage Website Settings</b>.</li>
            <li>Then select Java and for the <i>oxygenxml.com</i> entry, choose the <b>Run in Unsafe
                mode</b> option.</li>
          </ul></li>
      </ol></p>
    <p>Enable JavaWebstart logging on your computer to get additional debug information:<ol>
        <li>Open a console and run <codeph>javaws -viewer</codeph>.</li>
        <li>In the <b>Advanced</b> tab, expand the <b>Debugging</b> category and select all
          boxes.</li>
        <li>Expand the <b>Java console</b> category and choose <b>Show console</b>. </li>
        <li>Save settings.</li>
        <li>After running the applet, you will find the log files in:<ul>
            <li>On Windows this folder is located in:
                <filepath>%APPDATA%\LocalLow\Sun\Java\Deployment\log</filepath>.</li>
            <li>On OS X this folder is located in:
                <filepath>/Users/user_name/Library/Caches/Java/log</filepath>.</li>
            <li>On Linux this folder is located in:
                <filepath>/home/user/.java/deployment/log</filepath>.</li>
          </ul></li>
      </ol></p>
  </body>
</topic>
