<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="author-styleguide-annotations">
  <title>Providing Additional Documentation for XML Elements and Attributes</title>
  <!--Proofed-->
  <body>
    <p><ph keyref="product"/> gathers documentation from the associated schemas (DTDs, XML Schema,
      RelaxNG) and presents it for each element or attribute. For example, if you open the
        <uicontrol>Content Completion Assistant</uicontrol> for a recognized XML vocabulary,
      documentation is displayed for each element provided by the associated schema. Similar
      information is displayed when you hover over tag names presented in the
        <uicontrol>Elements</uicontrol> view. If you hover over attributes in the
        <uicontrol>Attributes</uicontrol> view you also see information about each attribute,
      gathered from the same schema.</p>
    <p>If you have a document type configuration set up for your XML vocabulary, there is a special
      XML configuration file that can be added to provide additional documentation information or
      links to specification web pages for certain elements and attributes. To provide this
      additional information, follow these steps:<ol id="ol_js3_4k5_kq">
        <li>Create a new folder in the configuration directory for the document type. For instance:
            <filepath>OXYGEN_INSTALL_DIR/frameworks/dita/styleguide</filepath>.</li>
        <li>Use the <uicontrol>New</uicontrol> document wizard to create a file using the
            <filepath>Oxygen content completion styleguide</filepath> file template.</li>
        <li>Make the appropriate changes to your custom mapping file. For example, you can look at
          how the DITA mapping file is configured:
            <filepath>OXYGEN_INSTALL_DIR/frameworks/dita/styleguide/contentCompletionElementsMap.xml</filepath>.
          The associated XML Schema contains additional details about how each element and attribute
          is used in the mapping file.</li>
        <li>Save the file in the folder created in step 1, using the fixed name:
            <filepath>contentCompletionElementsMap.xml</filepath>.</li>
        <li><ph conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/Open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to <uicontrol>Document
            Type Association</uicontrol>. Edit the document type configuration for your XML
          vocabulary, and in the <uicontrol>Classpath</uicontrol> tab add a link to the newly
          created folder.</li>
        <li>(Alternate)  <ph conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/Open-the-preferences-page"/> and go to
            <uicontrol>Document Type Association</uicontrol>. In <xref
            href="using-XML-Catalogs.dita#using-XML-Catalogs">the <uicontrol>Catalogs</uicontrol>
            tab add a new catalog file</xref>. The selected file needs to contain the
            following:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;!DOCTYPE catalog PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD XML Catalogs V1.1//EN" "http://www.oasis-open.org/committees/entity/release/1.1/catalog.dtd">
&lt;catalog xmlns="urn:oasis:names:tc:entity:xmlns:xml:catalog">
    &lt;uri name="http://www.oxygenxml.com/{processed_dt_name}/styleguide/contentCompletionElementsMap.xml" uri="contentCompletionElementsMap.xml"/>
&lt;/catalog></codeblock><p>where
              <i>{processed_dt_name}</i> is the name of the document type in lower case and with
            spaces replaced by underscores.</p></li>
        <li>Re-open the application and open an XML document. In the <uicontrol>Content Completion
            Assistant</uicontrol> you should see the additional annotations for each element.</li>
      </ol></p>
  </body>
</topic>
