<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ch_how_to_change_the_hyphenation_patterns">
    <title><?oxy_comment_start author="Steven" timestamp="20191211T055718-0500" comment="This is a duplicate"?>How
    to Change the Hyphenation for a Language<?oxy_comment_end?></title>
    <body>
		<p>First, you need to install a standalone Chemistry distribution (see <xref
        href="../../topics/ch_installing.dita#ch_installing"/>).</p>
		<note>If you are using the Chemistry distribution that comes bundled with <b>Oxygen XML
        Editor/Author</b>, you need to install a Chemistry kit in a separate folder (you will use
      this folder for the procedure below), then copy the binary dictionary in the folder (create it
      if missing): <filepath>[OXYGEN_INSTALL_DIR]/config/hyph</filepath>.</note>
        <p>The hyphenation dictionaries are stored as XML files in the
        <filepath>[CHEMISTRY_INSTALL_DIR]/config/hyph</filepath> directory. </p>
		<p>Each file is named with the language code and has the following structure:</p>
		<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;hyphenation-info>

&lt;hyphen-min before="2" after="3"/>

&lt;exceptions>
o-mni-bus
...
&lt;/exceptions>

&lt;patterns>
préémi3nent.
proémi3nent.
surémi3nent.
....
&lt;/patterns>

&lt;/hyphenation-info></codeblock>
    	<p>To change the behavior of the hyphenation, you can modify either the patterns or the
      exceptions sections:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>exceptions</dt>
          <dd>Contains the list of words that are not processed using the patterns, each on a single
            line. Each of the words should indicate the hyphenation points using the "-" character.
            If a word does not contain this character, it will not be hyphenated.<p>For example,
                <codeph>o-mni-bus</codeph> will match the <codeph>omnibus</codeph> word and will
              indicate two possible hyphenation points. </p><note>Compound words (like "e-mail")
              cannot be controlled by exception words.</note></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>patterns</dt>
          <dd>Contains the list of patterns, each on a single line. A pattern is a word fragment,
            not a word. The numbers from the patterns indicate how desirable a hyphen is at that
            position. <p>For example, <codeph>tran3s2act</codeph> indicates that the possible
              hyphenation points are "tran-s-act" and the preferable point is the first one, having
              the higher score of "3".</p></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl></p>
		<p>After you add the exceptions and the patterns, you will have to <xref
        href="../../topics/ch_how_to_rebuild_the_hyphenation_dictionaries.dita">rebuild the binary
        dictionaries</xref>.</p>
    </body>
</topic>
