<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ch_image_resolution">
  <title><?oxy_comment_start author="Steven" timestamp="20180308T090749+0200" comment="Merged into &quot;Graphics&quot; and moved to not_used folder."?>Image<?oxy_comment_end?>
    Resolution</title>
  <body>
    <p>Some raster images (pixels, not vector) may have a default resolution, set by the designer,
      using an image editing software. Usually the image size and resolution are set to look best on
      the screen. The advantage of a resolution set in the image itself it is that it will have the
      same effective size on the screen and on paper. For example, if the image has 144 dots in
      width, and an embedded resolution of 72dpi, it will be two inches on screen and on paper.</p>
    <p>The problems start to arise when the resolution is not set in the image, and the PDF
      processor has to decide what resolution to use in order to determine the size of the graphic.
      To solve this, the processor extracts the DPI from:</p>
    <ul id="ol_tyf_cnz_xz">
      <li>The <codeph>image-resolution</codeph> CSS property associated to the element that contains
        the image.</li>
      <li>The command line parameter <codeph>-image-resolution</codeph> .</li>
      <li>The built-in fallback resolution of 96 DPI.</li>
    </ul>
    <p>The recommended way to change this is by using the CSS Level 4
        <codeph>image-resolution</codeph> property:</p>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-css">img {
    image-resolution: 300dpi;
}</codeblock>
    <note>The <codeph>image-resolution</codeph> is inheritable, so you can associate it on the root
      element. It does not apply on the page generated content (margin
      boxes).<codeblock outputclass="language-css">:root {
    image-resolution: 300dpi;
}</codeblock>To
      reset the image resolution to the one set in the image itself, you can use the constant
        <codeph>from-image</codeph> instead of a DPI value:
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css">title:before {
    content: url("chapter-decorator.png");
    image-resolution: from-image;
}</codeblock></note>
    <note>To change the resolution for images that appear in a page margin box, set this property on
      that margin box, or directly on the @page rule, to apply to all page margin
      boxes:<codeblock outputclass="language-css">@page front-page {
    image-resolution: 600dpi;
}

@page {
    @top-center {
        image-resolution: 600dpi;
        content: url("company-logo.png");
    }
}</codeblock></note>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <title>Related Information:</title>
      <link href="ch_command_line_interface.dita"/>
      <link format="html" href="https://drafts.csswg.org/css-images-4/#the-image-resolution"
        scope="external"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
