<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="context-sensitive-help-system">
  <title><?oxy_comment_start author="Steven" timestamp="20200202T164409-0500" comment="This isn&apos;t applicable for DocBook."?>Context-Sensitive
    WebHelp Classic System<?oxy_comment_end?></title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm product="author developer editor authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"
          >WebHelp Classic<indexterm>Context-Sensitive</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm product="webhelp">Context-Sensitive</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>Context-sensitive help systems assist users by providing specific informational topics for
      certain components of a user interface, such as a button or window. This mechanism works based
      on mappings between a unique ID defined in the topic and a corresponding HTML page.</p>
    <section id="generating_contextsensitive_help">
      <title>Generating Context-Sensitive Help</title>
      <p>When WebHelp Classic output is generated, the transformation process produces an XML
        mapping file called <filepath>context-help-map.xml</filepath> and copies it in the output
        folder of the transformation. This XML file maps an ID to a corresponding HTML page through
        an <xmlelement>appContext</xmlelement> element, as in the following
        example:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;map productID="oxy-webhelp" productVersion="1.1"&gt;
  &lt;appContext helpID="myapp-functionid1" path="tasks/app-help1.html"/&gt;
  &lt;appContext helpID="myapp-functionid2" path="tasks/app-help1.html"/&gt;
    .  .  .
&lt;/map&gt;</codeblock></p>
      <p>The possible attributes are as follows:</p>
      <p>
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>helpID</dt>
            <dd>
              <p>A Unique ID provided by a topic from two possible sources
                  (<xmlelement>resourceid</xmlelement> element or the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute
                that is set on the topic root element):</p>
              <p>
                <dl>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>resourceid</dt>
                    <dd>
                      <p>The <xmlelement>resourceid</xmlelement> element is mapped into the
                          <xmlelement>appContext</xmlelement> element and can be specified in either
                        the <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> within a <term>DITA map</term> or in a
                          <xmlelement>prolog</xmlelement> within a DITA topic. The
                          <xmlelement>resourceid</xmlelement> element accepts the following
                          attributes:<ul id="ul_p3b_ncj_y3b">
                          <li id="appname"><b>appname</b> - A name for the external application that
                            references the topic. If this attribute is not specified, its value is
                            considered to be empty (<codeph>""</codeph>).</li>
                          <li><b>appid</b> - An ID used by an application to identify the
                            topic.</li>
                          <li><b>id</b> - Specifies a value that is used by a specific application
                            to identify the topic, but this attribute is ignored if an
                              <xmlatt>appid</xmlatt> attribute is used. Also, starting with DITA
                            1.3, the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute was deprecated in favor of the
                              <xmlatt>appid</xmlatt> attribute.</li>
                        </ul><note>Multiple <xmlatt>appid</xmlatt> values can be associated with a
                          single <xmlatt>appname</xmlatt> value (and multiple
                            <xmlatt>appname</xmlatt> values can be associated with a single
                            <xmlatt>appid</xmlatt> value), but the values for both attributes work
                          in combination to specify a specific ID for a specific application, and
                          therefore each combination of values for the <xmlatt>appid</xmlatt> and
                            <xmlatt>appname</xmlatt> attributes should be unique within the context
                          of a single <xref keyref="glossentry_root-map"><term>root
                            map</term></xref>. For example, suppose that you need two different
                          functions of an application to both open the same WebHelp page.</note></p>
                      <p><u><b>Example: A <xmlelement>resourceid</xmlelement> specified in a DITA
                            Map</b></u></p>
                      <p>The <xmlelement>resourceid</xmlelement> element can be specified in a
                          <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> element within a
                          <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>.<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;map title="App Help">
  &lt;topicref href="app-help1.dita" type="task">
     &lt;topicmeta>
       &lt;resourceid appname="myapp" appid="functionid1"/>
       &lt;resourceid appname="myapp" appid="functionid2"/>
     &lt;/topicmeta>
  &lt;/topicref>
&lt;/map></codeblock></p>
                      <p><u><b>Example: A <xmlelement>resourceid</xmlelement> specified in a DITA
                            Topic</b></u></p>
                      <p>The <xmlelement>resourceid</xmlelement> element can be specified in a
                          <xmlelement>prolog</xmlelement> element within a DITA
                        topic.<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;task id="app-help1">
  &lt;title>My App Help&lt;/title>
  &lt;prolog>
    &lt;resourceid appname="myapp" appid="functionid1"/>
    &lt;resourceid appname="myapp" appid="functionid2"/>
  &lt;/prolog>
...
&lt;/task></codeblock></p>
                      <p>For more information about the <xmlelement>resourceid</xmlelement> element,
                        see <xref
                          href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/dita/1.3/specs/langRef/base/resourceid.html#resourceid__attributes"
                          format="html" scope="external">DITA Specifications:
                        &lt;resourceid></xref>.</p>
                    </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>id</dt>
                    <dd>If a <xmlelement>resourceid</xmlelement> element is not declared in the
                        <term>DITA map</term> or DITA topic (as described above), the
                        <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute that is set on the topic root element is
                      mapped into the <xmlelement>appContext</xmlelement> element.</dd>
                    <dd>
                      <note type="important">You should ensure that these defined IDs are unique in
                        the context of the entire DITA project. If the IDs are not unique, the
                        transformation scenario will display warning messages in the transformation
                        console output and the help system will not work properly.</note>
                    </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                </dl>
              </p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>path</dt>
            <dd>The path to a corresponding WebHelp page. This path is relative to the location of
              the <filepath>context-help-map.xml</filepath> mapping file.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>productID (Applicable only if you are using the WebHelp Classic with Feedback
              transformation scenario)</dt>
            <dd>The ID of the product for your documentation project.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>productVersion (Applicable only if you are using the WebHelp Classic with Feedback
              transformation scenario)</dt>
            <dd>The version of the product for your documentation project.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
      <p>There are two ways of implementing context-sensitive help in your system:<ul
          id="ul_erx_glz_cr">
          <li>The XML mapping file can be loaded by a PHP script on the server side. The script
            receives the <codeph>contextId</codeph> value and will look it up in the XML file.</li>
          <li>Invoke one of the WebHelp system files <filepath>index.html</filepath> or
              <filepath>index_frames.html</filepath> and pass the <codeph>contextId</codeph>
            parameter with a specific value. The WebHelp system will automatically open the help
            page associated with the value of the <codeph>contextId</codeph> parameter.<note
              type="note">The <codeph>contextId</codeph> parameter is not case-sensitive.</note></li>
        </ul></p>
      <p>The following example will open a <i>frameless</i> version of the WebHelp system showing
        the page associated with the ID
        <codeph>dialog1ID</codeph>:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini">index.html?contextId=dialog1ID</codeblock></p>
      <p>The following example will open a <i>frameset</i> version of the WebHelp system showing the
        page associated with the ID
        <codeph>view1ID</codeph>:<codeblock outputclass="language-ini">index_frames.html?contextId=view1ID</codeblock></p>
    </section>
    <note conkeyref="reusables-transforming-documents/context-id-note"/>
    <section id="contextsensitive_queries">
      <title>Context-Sensitive Queries</title>
      <p>You can use the URL field in your browser to search for topics in a context-sensitive
        WebHelp system with the assistance of the following parameters:<ul>
          <li id="contextid-classic"><b>contextId</b> - The WebHelp JavaScript engine will look for
            this value in the <filepath>context-help-map.xml</filepath> mapping file and load the
            corresponding help page.<note>You can use an <xref keyref="glossentry_anchor"
                  ><term>anchor</term></xref> in the <codeph>contextId</codeph> parameter to jump to
              a specific section in a document. For example,
                <codeph>contextId=topicID#anchor</codeph>.</note></li>
          <li conkeyref="reusables-transforming-documents/appname-classic"/>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
