<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="customizing-project">
  <title><?oxy_comment_start author="Steven" timestamp="20190308T112153+0200" comment="Moved to not_used folder because the web applet method is no longer used (EXM-43091)"?>Customize
    Your Applet<?oxy_comment_end?></title>
  <body>
    <p>Follow these steps to customize the <ph keyref="authorComponent"/> Java applet:<ol
        id="ol_nlv_dqg_nm">
        <li>Follow <xref
            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/oxygen_sdk.html#oXygen_standalone_applet_integration"
            format="html" scope="external">this set of instructions</xref> to setup the sample
          project and look for the Java sources (these can be customized to fit your requirements)
          of the sample applet implementation;<note>The Java source files are located in the
              <filepath>src</filepath> folder of the <filepath>oxygen-sample-applet</filepath>
            module.</note></li>
        <li>Look inside <filepath>web-resources/sharepoint/author-component-dita.aspx</filepath> and
          the associated <filepath>*.js</filepath> resources, to see how the applet is embedded in
          the page and how it can be controlled using JavaScript (to set and get XML content from
          it).</li>
        <li>Edit the <filepath>default.properties</filepath> configuration to specify your custom
          certificate information, used to sign the applet libraries. Also, specify the code base
          from where the applet resources will be downloaded.</li>
        <li>The sample Applet <filepath>target/jnlp/author-component-dita.jnlp</filepath> file
          contains the list of used libraries. This list is automatically generated from the Maven
          dependencies of the project. The sample <term>frameworks</term> and options <xref
            keyref="glossentry_jar"><term>JAR</term></xref> archives are located in the
            <filepath>bundle-frameworks</filepath> and <filepath>bundle-options</filepath> modules
          of the sample project.<note>The JNLP file and the associated resources and libraries must
            be deployed on a non-SharePoint web server. Otherwise, the applet will not be
            loaded.</note></li>
        <li>Use the Maven command <codeph>mvn package</codeph> to pack the component. More
          information are available <xref
            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/oxygen_sdk.html#oXygen_standalone_applet_integration"
            format="html" scope="external">here</xref>. The resulting applet distribution is copied
          in the <filepath>target/jnlp/</filepath> directory. From now on, you can copy the applet
          files on your web server.</li>
      </ol></p>
  </body>
</topic>
