<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/task.dtd">
<task id="damaged-file-associations-mac">
  <title><?oxy_comment_start author="steven_higgs" timestamp="20160426T160004+0300" comment="converted to topic with same name."?>Damaged
    File Associations on OS X<?oxy_comment_end?></title>
  <taskbody>
    <context>
      <p>After upgrading OS X and <ph keyref="product"/>, it is no longer associated to the
        appropriate file types (such as <ph>XML</ph>, <ph>XSL</ph>, <ph>XSD</ph>, etc.) How can I
        create the file associations again?</p>
      <p>The upgrade damaged the file associations in the LaunchService Database on your OS X
        machine. You can rebuild the LaunchService Database with the following procedure. This will
        reset all file associations and will rescan the entire file system searching for
        applications that declare file associations and collecting them in a database used by
        Finder.</p>
    </context>
    <steps id="procedure-rebuild-file-associations-registry">
      <step>
        <cmd>Find all the <ph keyref="product"/> installations on your hard drive.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Delete them by dragging them to the Trash.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Clear the Trash.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Unpack the <ph keyref="product"/> installation kit on your desktop.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Copy the contents of the archive into the folder <filepath>/ Applications /
            Oxygen</filepath>.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Run the following command in a Terminal:</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-ini">/System/Library/Frameworks/CoreServices.framework/Versions/A/Frameworks/LaunchServices.framework/Versions/A/Support/lsregister -kill -r -domain local -domain system -domain user</codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Restart Finder with the following command:</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-ini">killall Finder</codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Create an XML or XSD file on your desktop.</cmd>
        <stepresult>It should have the <ph keyref="product"/> icon.</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Double-click the file.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Accept the confirmation.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>
    <result>When you start <ph keyref="product"/> the file associations should work
      correctly.</result>
  </taskbody>
</task>
