<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="deploying-webhelp-feedback">
  <?oxy_comment_start author="Steven" timestamp="20210923T164101-0400" comment="Moved to not_used folder (EXM-48842)"?>
  <title>Deploying a PHP-based Feedback-Enabled System (Deprecated)<?oxy_comment_end?></title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm product="webhelp">Deploying feedback system</indexterm>
        <indexterm product="webhelp">Installing feedback system</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body id="installation">
    <note id="note_kx1_ftc_v4b">See <xref href="whc-feedback-system.dita"/>.</note>
    <section id="system-requirements">
      <title>System Requirements</title>
      <p id="p_iz4_cgk_54b">The feedback-enabled WebHelp system requires a standard server
        deployment. You can request this from your server administrator and it requires the
        following system components:<ul id="ul_qtg_mnh_ws">
          <li id="li_jz4_cgk_54b">A Web server (such as <term>Apache Web Server</term>)</li>
          <li id="li_kz4_cgk_54b">A <term>MySQL</term> or <term>MariaDB</term> database server</li>
          <li id="li_lz4_cgk_54b">A database admin tool (such as <term>phpMyAdmin</term>)</li>
          <li id="li_mz4_cgk_54b">PHP Version 5.1.6 or later</li>
        </ul>The WebHelp system supports most of the recent versions of the following browsers:
        Chrome, Firefox, Edge, Safari, Opera.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="create-database-section">
      <title>Create WebHelp with Feedback Database</title>
      <p id="p_nz4_cgk_54b">The system needs a database to store user details and the actual
        feedback, and a user added to it with all privileges. After this is created, you should have
        the following information:<ul id="ul_f1m_3hk_vs">
          <li id="li_oz4_cgk_54b">Database name</li>
          <li id="li_pz4_cgk_54b">Username</li>
          <li id="li_qz4_cgk_54b">Password</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p id="p_rz4_cgk_54b">Exactly how you create the database and user depends on your web host
        and your particular needs. </p>
    </section>
    <p id="p_sz4_cgk_54b"><b><u>Example:</u></b></p>
    <p id="p_tz4_cgk_54b">The following procedure uses <term>phpMyAdmin</term> to create a MySQL
      database for the feedback system and a MySQL user with privileges for that database. The
      feedback system uses these credentials to connect to the database.</p>
    <p id="p_uz4_cgk_54b">Using <term>phpMyAdmin</term> to create a database: <ol id="ol_als_nkk_vs">
        <li id="li_vz4_cgk_54b">Access the <term>phpMyAdmin</term> instance running on your
          server.</li>
        <li id="li_wz4_cgk_54b">Click <term>Databases</term> (in the right frame) and then create a
            <term>database</term>. You can give it any name you want (for example
            <term>comments</term>).</li>
        <li id="li_xz4_cgk_54b">Create a user with connection privileges for this database. </li>
        <li id="li_yz4_cgk_54b">Under <term>localhost</term>, in the right frame, click
            <term>Privileges</term> and then at the bottom of the page click the <uicontrol>reload
            the privileges</uicontrol> link.</li>
      </ol></p>
    <section id="deploying-webhelp">
      <title>Deploying the WebHelp with Feedback Output</title>
      <p id="p_zz4_cgk_54b">If you have a web server configured with PHP and MySQL, you can deploy
        the <b>WebHelp with Feedback</b> output by following these steps:<ol id="ol_jfm_3mk_vs">
          <li id="li_a1p_cgk_54b">Connect to your server using an FTP client.</li>
          <li id="li_b1p_cgk_54b">Locate the home directory (from now on, referred to as
              <term>DOCUMENT_ROOT</term>) of your server.</li>
          <li id="li_c1p_cgk_54b">Copy the transformation output folder into the
              <filepath>DOCUMENT_ROOT</filepath> folder.</li>
          <li id="li_d1p_cgk_54b">Rename it to something relevant (for example,
              <filepath>myProductWebHelp</filepath>).</li>
          <li id="li_e1p_cgk_54b">Open the output folder (for example,
              <filepath>http://[YOUR_SERVER]/myProductWebHelp/)</filepath>. You are redirected to
            the installation wizard. Proceed with the installation as follows:<ol id="ol_lgm_lnk_vs">
              <li id="li_f1p_cgk_54b">Verify that the prerequisites are met.</li>
              <li id="li_g1p_cgk_54b">Click <uicontrol>Start Installation</uicontrol>.</li>
              <li id="li_h1p_cgk_54b">Configure the <uicontrol>Deployment Settings</uicontrol>
                section. Default values are provided, but you should adjust them as needed.<note
                  type="tip" id="note_i1p_cgk_54b">You can change some of the options later. The
                  installation creates a <filepath>config.php</filepath> file in
                    <filepath>[OXYGEN_WEBHELP_INSTALL_DIR]/feedback/resources/php/config/config.php</filepath>
                  where all your configuration options are stored.</note></li>
              <li id="li_j1p_cgk_54b">Configure the <uicontrol>MySql Database Connection
                  Settings</uicontrol> section. Use the information (database name, username,
                password) from the <xref href="#deploying-webhelp-feedback/create-database-section"
                  format="dita">Create WebHelp with Feedback Database section</xref> to fill in the
                appropriate text boxes.<note type="warning" id="create-db-note">Selecting the
                    <uicontrol>Create new database structure</uicontrol> option will overwrite any
                  existing data in the selected database, if it already exists. Therefore, it is
                  useful the first time you install the <b>WebHelp with Feedback</b> system, but you
                  do not want to select this option on subsequent deployments.</note></li>
              <li id="li_k1p_cgk_54b">If you are using a domain (such as <term>OpenLDAP</term> or
                  <term>Active Directory</term>) to manage users in your organization, select the
                  <uicontrol>Enable LDAP Authentication</uicontrol> option. This will allow you to
                configure the LDAP server, which will provide information and credentials for users
                who will access the WebHelp system. Also, this will allow you to choose which of the
                domain users will have administrator privileges.</li>
              <li id="li_l1p_cgk_54b">
                <p id="p_m1p_cgk_54b">If the <uicontrol>Create new database structure</uicontrol>
                  option is selected, the <uicontrol>Create WebHelp Administrator
                    Account</uicontrol> section becomes available. Here you can set the
                  administrator account data. The administrator is able to moderate new posts and
                  manage WebHelp users.</p>
                <p id="p_n1p_cgk_54b">The same database can be used to store comments for multiple
                    <b>WebHelp with Feedback</b> deployments. If a topic is available in multiple
                  deployments and there are comments associated with it, you can choose to display
                  the comments in all deployments that share the database. To do this, select the
                    <uicontrol>Display comments from other products</uicontrol> option. In the
                    <uicontrol>Display comments from</uicontrol> section, a list with the
                  deployments sharing the same database is displayed. Select the deployments allowed
                  to share common feedback.<note id="note_o1p_cgk_54b">You can restrict the
                    displayed comments of a product depending on its version. If you have two
                    products that use the same database and you restrict one of them to display
                    comments starting from a certain version, the comments of the other product are
                    also displayed from the specified version onwards. </note></p>
              </li>
              <li id="li_p1p_cgk_54b">Click <uicontrol>Next Step</uicontrol>.</li>
              <li id="li_q1p_cgk_54b">Remove the installation folder from your web server.<note
                  type="important" id="note_r1p_cgk_54b">When you publish subsequent iterations of
                  your <b>WebHelp with Feedback</b> system, you will not upload the
                    <filepath>/install</filepath> folder in the output, as you only need it uploaded
                  the first time you create the installation. On subsequent uploads, you will just
                  upload the other output files.</note></li>
              <li id="li_s1p_cgk_54b">In your Web browser, go to your <b>WebHelp with Feedback</b>
                system main page.</li>
            </ol></li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="testing_your_webhelp_classic_with_feedback_system">
      <title>Testing Your WebHelp with Feedback System</title>
      <p id="p_t1p_cgk_54b">To test your system, create a user and post a comment. Check to see if
        the notification emails are delivered to your email inbox.<note id="note_u1p_cgk_54b">To
          read debug messages generated by the system:<ol id="ol_hyx_lpk_vs">
            <li id="li_v1p_cgk_54b">Enable <term>JavaScript</term> logging by doing one of the
                following:<ul id="ul_iyx_lpk_vs">
                <li id="li_w1p_cgk_54b">Open the <filepath>log.js</filepath> file, locate the
                    <codeph>var log= new Log(Level.NONE);</codeph> line, and change the logging
                  level to: <codeph>Level.INFO</codeph>, <codeph>Level.DEBUG</codeph>,
                    <codeph>Level.WARN</codeph>, or <codeph>Level.ERROR</codeph>.</li>
                <li id="li_x1p_cgk_54b">Append <codeph>?log=true</codeph> to the WebHelp URL.</li>
              </ul></li>
            <li id="li_y1p_cgk_54b">Inspect the PHP and Apache server log files.</li>
          </ol></note></p>
    </section>
    <section id="documentation_product_id_and_version">
      <title>Documentation Product ID and Version</title>
      <p id="p_z1p_cgk_54b">When you run a <b>WebHelp with Feedback</b> transformation scenario, by
        default you are prompted for a documentation product ID and version number. This is needed
        when multiple WebHelp systems are deployed on the same server. Think of your WebHelp output
        as a <term>product</term>. If you have three different WebHelp outputs, you have three
        different <term>products</term> (each with their own unique documentation product ID). This
        identifier is included in a configuration file so that comments are tied to a particular
        output (product ID and version number).<note id="note_abp_cgk_54b">The <b>WebHelp with
            Feedback</b> installation includes a configuration option (<uicontrol>Display comments
            from other products</uicontrol>) that allows you to choose to have comments visible in
          other specified <term>products</term>.</note></p>
    </section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <link href="managing-webhelp-feedback.dita#managing-webhelp-feedback"/>
  </related-links>
</topic>
