<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="file-contents-panel">
  <title><?oxy_comment_start author="steven_higgs" timestamp="20160412T115121+0300" comment="Everything here is already covered in &quot;file-comparison.dita&quot; or is no longer true. Moved to not_used folder."?>File
    Contents Panel<?oxy_comment_end?></title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm>Comparing and Merging Documents<indexterm>Compare Files tool<indexterm>file contents
              panel</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>Selected files are opened in two side-by-side editors. A text perspective is used to offer a
      better view of the differences. You can also compare XML fragments by copying and pasting them
      into both sides of the panel, without selecting files. To compare XML fragments, if files are
      already opened you need to close them to paste the fragments into the panels.</p>
    <p>The two editors are constantly kept in sync. Therefore, if you scroll through the text in one
      side, the other one also scrolls to show the differences side-by-side. The differences are
      indicated with highlights connected through colored areas. To navigate through differences, do
      one of the following:<ul id="ul_lrm_q3f_lf">
        <li>Use the navigation buttons on the toolbar.</li>
        <li>Select the navigation options from the <uicontrol>Compare</uicontrol> menu.</li>
        <li>Select a block of differences by clicking its small colored indicator in the overview
          ruler located in the right-most part of the window. At the top of the overview ruler there
          is a success indicator that turns green where there are no differences, or red if
          differences are found.</li>
        <li>Click a colored area in between the two text editors.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>You can edit the content in either side of the editor and the differences are refreshed when
      you save the modified document. If you save modified fragments, rather than a file, a dialog
      box opens that allows you to save the changes as a new document.</p>
    <p>Both editors provide a contextual menu that contains <term>edit</term>, <term>merge</term>,
      and <term>navigation</term> actions.</p>
    <p>The <uicontrol>Find/Replace</uicontrol> dialog box is displayed by pressing <uicontrol
        conkeyref="reusable_oxygen_shortcuts_list/ctrl_f"/>.
        <uicontrol>Find/Replace</uicontrol> options are also available: <ul id="ul_zy2_y3f_lf">
        <li><uicontrol conkeyref="reusable_oxygen_shortcuts_list/F3"/> - Performs a
          forward search, using the last search configuration.</li>
        <li><uicontrol conkeyref="reusable_oxygen_shortcuts_list/shift_f3"/> -
          Performs a backward search, using the last search configuration.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>If the compared blocks of text are too large and you want to see the differences at a more
      fine-tuned level, you can choose options in the <uicontrol>Compare</uicontrol> menu to do a
        <xref href="word-comparison.dita"><ph><term>word level comparison</term></ph></xref> or
        <xref href="char-comparison.dita"><ph><term>character level
      comparison</term></ph></xref>.</p>
  </body>
</topic>