<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="keep-tracking-inserted-content">
  <title><?oxy_comment_start author="steven_higgs" timestamp="20160407T153113+0300" comment="Merged into &quot;track-changes-behaviour.dita&quot; and moved to not_used folder."?>Tracked
    Inserted Content<?oxy_comment_end?></title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Tracked Changes <indexterm>inserted content</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>When <uicontrol>Track Changes</uicontrol> is disabled and you insert content, the following
      is possible:<ul>
        <li>Making an insertion in a <uicontrol>Delete</uicontrol> change results in the change
          being split in two and the content is inserted without being marked as change.</li>
        <li>Making an insertion in an <uicontrol>Insert</uicontrol> change results in the change
          being split in two and the content is inserted without being marked as change.</li>
        <li>Making an insertion in regular content results in a regular insertion.</li>
      </ul> When <uicontrol>Track Changes</uicontrol> is enabled and you insert content, the
      following are possible:<ul>
        <li>Making an insertion in a <uicontrol>Delete</uicontrol> change results in the change
          being split in two and the current inserted content appears marked as an INSERT.</li>
        <li>Making an insertion in an <uicontrol>Insert</uicontrol> change results in the following:<ul>
            <li>If the original insertion was made by another user, the change is split in two and
              the current inserted content appears marked as an INSERT by the current author.</li>
            <li>If the original <uicontrol>Insert</uicontrol> change was made by the same user, the
              change is just expanded to contain the inserted content. The creation time-stamp of
              the previous insert is preserved.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li> If we insert in regular content, the current inserted content appears marked as an
            <uicontrol>Insert</uicontrol> change.</li>
      </ul></p>
  </body>
</topic>
