<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="localizeGUI-using-xml-file">
  <title><?oxy_comment_start author="Steven" timestamp="20180216T144528+0200" comment="Merged into &quot;changing-user-interface-language.dita&quot; and moved this to not_used."?>Creating
    an Interface Localization File<?oxy_comment_end?></title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Localization file</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>You can change the language of the <ph><ph keyref="product"/></ph> user interface by creating
      an interface localization file. The example in this procedure is based on the Spanish
      language, and a standard <ph><ph keyref="product"/></ph> Windows distribution.</p>
    <ol>
      <li>Identify the code for the new language you want to translate the interface. It is composed
        from a language code (two or three lowercase letters that conform to the <xref
          href="http://www.loc.gov/standards/iso639-2/php/code_list.php" format="html"
          scope="external">ISO 639 standard</xref>), followed by an underscore character, and a
        region code (two or three uppercase letters that conform to the <xref
          href="http://www.chemie.fu-berlin.de/diverse/doc/ISO_3166.html" format="html"
          scope="external">ISO 3166 standard</xref>).</li>
      <li>Write an email to the <ph><ph keyref="product"/></ph> support team and ask them to send
        you the <filepath>translation.xml</filepath> sample file.</li>
      <li>Open <filepath>translation.xml</filepath> in <ph><ph keyref="product"/></ph>. The file contains
        all the interface messages that can be translated and is updated at every new release with
        the latest additions. Here is a sample of its
        content:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;translation>
    &lt;languageList>
        &lt;language description="English" lang="en_US"/>
    &lt;/languageList>
    &lt;key value="New">
        &lt;comment>The File/New action. Creates a new document.&lt;/comment>
        &lt;val lang="en_US">New&lt;/val>
    &lt;/key>    
    &lt;key value="New_folder">
        &lt;comment>Creates a folder in the Project View.&lt;/comment>
        &lt;val lang="en_US">New Folder&lt;/val>
    &lt;/key>
    .....
&lt;/translation>    </codeblock></li>
      <li>Update the <codeph>language</codeph> element to reflect the new language. Set the
          <codeph>description</codeph> attribute to <codeph>Spanish</codeph> and the
          <codeph>lang</codeph> attribute to <codeph>es_ES</codeph>.</li>
      <li>For each <codeph>key</codeph> element translate the <codeph>comment</codeph> (optional)
        and <codeph>val</codeph> elements. Set the <codeph>lang</codeph> attribute to
          <codeph>es_ES</codeph>.<note>After you are finished, the file should look
          like this:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;translation>
    &lt;languageList>
        &lt;language description="Español" lang="es_ES"/>
    &lt;/languageList>
    &lt;key value="New">
        &lt;comment>El Archivo / Nueva acción. Crea un nuevo documento.&lt;/comment>
        &lt;val lang="es_ES">Nuevo&lt;/val>
    &lt;/key>    
    &lt;key value="New_folder">
        &lt;comment>Crea una carpeta en la vista del proyecto.&lt;/comment>
        &lt;val lang="es_ES">Nueva carpeta&lt;/val>
    &lt;/key>
    .....
&lt;/translation></codeblock></note></li>
      <li><ph conkeyref="reusables-preferences-pages/Open-the-preferences-page"/>, go to
          <uicontrol>Global</uicontrol>, and select the <xref
            keyref="options_global/other-language"><uicontrol>Other
            language</uicontrol> option</xref>. Browse for the <filepath>translation.xml</filepath>
        file.</li>
      <li>Restart the application.</li>
    </ol>
  </body>
</topic>
