<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="overview-outliner">
  <title><?oxy_comment_start author="steven_higgs" timestamp="20151119T093451+0200" comment="This content was merged into an almost identical topic and is therefore no longer needed. Moved to the not_used folder."?>XML
    Document Overview<?oxy_comment_end?></title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>XML Outline View<indexterm>XML document overview</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>The <uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol> view displays a general tag overview of the current edited
      XML document. It also shows the correct hierarchical dependencies between the tag elements.
      This functionality makes it easier for you to be aware of the document structure and the way
      tags are nested.</p>
    <p>The <uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol> view allows you to:<ul>
        <li>Insert or delete nodes using contextual menu actions.</li>
        <li>Move elements by dragging them to a new position in the tree structure.</li>
        <li>Highlight elements in the <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> editor area.<note> The
              <uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol> view is synchronized with the
              <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> editor area. When you make a selection in the
              <uicontrol>Author</uicontrol> editor area, the corresponding elements of the selection
            are highlighted in the <uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol> view and vice versa. This
            functionality is available both for single and multiple selection. To deselect one of
            the elements, use <uicontrol
              conkeyref="reusable_oxygen_shortcuts_list/ctrl_click"/>.</note></li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>Document errors (such as an element inserted in an invalid position, or a wrong attribute
      name, or a missing required attribute value) are highlighted in the
        <uicontrol>Outline</uicontrol> tree:<ul>
        <li>A red exclamation mark decorates the element icon.</li>
        <li>A dotted red underline decorates the element name and value.</li>
        <li>A tooltip provides more information about the nature of the error, when you hover with
          the mouse pointer over the faulted element.</li>
      </ul></p>
  </body>
</topic>
