<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="problem-report-submitted-on-technical-support-form">
  <title><?oxy_comment_start author="steven_higgs" timestamp="20150616T150706+0300" comment="Adrian said that this information shouldn&apos;t be in the UG because they only provide these instructions to users as a last resort because the log4j file could cause performance issues and other bugs.  Therefore, I&apos;m moving this topic to the &quot;not_used&quot; folder.  I did revise it before moving it in case we need to  re-add it  at some point."?>Details
    to Submit in a Request for Technical Support Using the Online Form<?oxy_comment_end?></title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm> </indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <section>
      <p>What details should I add to my request for technical support on the online form in the
        product website?</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <p>When completing a request for Technical Support using the online form, include as many
        details as possible about your problem. For problems where a simple explanation may not be
        enough for the Technical Support team to reproduce or address the issue (such as server
        connection errors, unexpected delays while editing a document, an application crash, etc.),
        you should generate a log file and attach it to the problem report. In the case of a crash,
        you should also attach the crash report file generated by your operating system.</p>
      <p>To generate an <ph keyref="product"/> log file, follow these steps:<ol id="ol_wdj_44r_js">
          <li>Create a text file called <filepath>log4j.properties</filepath> in the <ph
              product="author developer editor">application installation folder</ph><ph
              product="authorEclipse developerEclipse editorEclipse"><filepath>lib</filepath> folder
              of the installed plugin folder</ph>, with the following content:
            <codeblock outputclass="language-ini">log4j.rootCategory= debug, R2
  
log4j.appender.R2=org.apache.log4j.RollingFileAppender
log4j.appender.R2.File=${user.home}/Desktop/oxygenLog/oxygen.log
log4j.appender.R2.MaxFileSize=12000KB
log4j.appender.R2.MaxBackupIndex=20
log4j.appender.R2.layout=org.apache.log4j.PatternLayout
log4j.appender.R2.layout.ConversionPattern=%r %p [ %t ] %c - %m%n </codeblock></li>
          <li>Restart the application.</li>
          <li>Reproduce the error.</li>
          <li>Close the application.</li>
          <li>Delete the <filepath>log4j.properties</filepath> file because it might cause
            performance issues if you leave it in the installation folder. </li>
        </ol></p>
      <p>The resulting log file is called <filepath>oxygen.log</filepath> and is located in the
          <filepath>Desktop\oxygenLog</filepath> folder.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
