<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="running-dita-transformation-webhelp-plugin">
  <title><?oxy_comment_start author="Steven" timestamp="20171214T152339+0200" comment="Merged into &quot;dita-webhelp-plugin&quot; so this one can be moved to not_used folder."?>Running
    a DITA Transformation Using the <ph keyref="product"></ph><?oxy_comment_end?></title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>DITA<indexterm>Running external transformation</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>There are two main ways to run a DITA to WebHelp (<xref
        href="dita-webhelp-plugin.dita#dita-webhelp-plugin"
          ><uicontrol>webhelp-responsive</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>webhelp</uicontrol>,
          <uicontrol>webhelp-feedback</uicontrol></xref>) transformation using the <ph
        keyref="product"/>:</p>
    <section id="startup_script_from_webhelp_plugin_method">
      <title><?oxy_comment_start author="Steven" timestamp="20171214T111106+0200" comment="Maybe make it clear that this method is only recommended for 1.8"?>Startup
        Script from <ph keyref="product"/> Method<?oxy_comment_end?></title>
      <p>The first method involves running the <b>ditaWebhelp.bat</b> or <b>ditaWebhelp.sh</b>
        startup script that comes bundled in the <ph keyref="product"/> folder:<ul
          id="ul_mpz_hzq_zv">
          <li><b>WEBHELP_PLUGIN_DIR\ditaWebhelp.bat</b> script file (Windows based systems)</li>
          <li><b>WEBHELP_PLUGIN_DIR\ditaWebhelp.sh</b> script file (Unix/Linux based systems)</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p>Before using the script to generate output, you must customize it to specify the paths to
        the Java VM, DITA Open Toolkit, and also to set the transformation type. To do this, open
        the script file and edit the following variables and parameters:<ul id="ul_ay4_wzq_zv">
          <li><b>JVM_INSTALL_DIR</b> - Specifies the path to the Java Virtual Machine installation
            directory on your disk.</li>
          <li><b>DITA_OT_INSTALL_DIR</b> - Specifies the path to DITA Open Toolkit installation
            directory on your disk.<note>The scripts reference the
                <filepath>dost-patches-DITA-1.8.jar</filepath>
              <term>JAR</term> file containing DITA OT <ph keyref="webhelpPluginDITAOT18Ver"
              />-specific patches. If you use DITA OT 1.7, please update that reference to
                <filepath>dost-patches-DITA-1.7.jar</filepath>. If you use DITA OT <ph
                keyref="webhelpPluginDITAOT2xVer"/>, no patches are needed, so just remove the
              reference.</note></li>
          <li><b>TRANSTYPE</b> - Specifies the type of the transformation you want to apply. You can
            set it to <codeph>webhelp-responsive</codeph>, <codeph>webhelp</codeph>, or
              <codeph>webhelp-feedback</codeph>.</li>
          <li><b>DITA_MAP_BASE_DIR</b> - Specifies the path to the directory where the input
              <term>DITA map</term> file is located.</li>
          <li><b>DITAMAP_FILE</b> - Specifies the input <term>DITA map</term> file.</li>
          <li><b>DITAVAL_FILE</b> - Specifies the <filepath>.ditaval</filepath> input filter that
            the transformation process applies to the input <term>DITA map</term> file.</li>
          <li><b>DITAVAL_DIR</b> - Specifies the path to the directory where the
              <filepath>.ditaval</filepath> file is located.</li>
          <li><b>-Doutput.dir</b> - Specifies the output directory of the transformation.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section id="startup_script_from_dita_ot_distribution_method">
      <title>Startup Script from DITA OT Distribution Method</title>
      <p>The second method involves using the startup script that comes bundled with each DITA OT
        distribution.</p>
      <p>
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>DITA OT <ph keyref="webhelpPluginDITAOT18Ver"/></dt>
            <dd>For DITA Open Toolkit <ph keyref="webhelpPluginDITAOT18Ver"/>, the general
              instructions for running the startup script can be found here: <xref
                href="http://www.dita-ot.org/1.8/readme/building-output-using-cl-tool.html"
                format="html" scope="external"/>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>DITA OT <ph keyref="webhelpPluginDITAOT2xVer"/></dt>
            <dd>For DITA Open Toolkit <ph keyref="webhelpPluginDITAOT2xVer"/>, the general
              instructions for running the startup script can be found here: <xref
                href="http://www.dita-ot.org/2.3/parameters/dita-command-arguments.html"
                format="html" scope="external"/>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
      <p><b>DITA OT Startup Script Examples:</b></p>
      <p><codeph><xref keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"/>\bin\[executable] -i [path_to_input.ditamap]
          -f [transformation_type]</codeph></p>
      <p>For example:<ul id="ul_a1c_lzq_zv">
          <li><codeph><xref keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"/>\bin\dita.bat -i c:\mySample.ditamap -f
              webhelp-responsive</codeph> (Windows based systems)</li>
          <li><codeph><xref keyref="glossentry_dita_ot_dir"/>\bin\dita -i c:\mySample.ditamap -f
              webhelp-responsive</codeph> (Unix/Linux based systems)<note>For the
                <codeph>-format</codeph> (<codeph>-f</codeph>) argument, use one of the following
                <xref href="dita-webhelp-plugin.dita#dita-webhelp-plugin">transformation
                types</xref>: <codeph>webhelp-responsive</codeph>, <codeph>webhelp</codeph>, or
                <codeph>webhelp-feedback</codeph>.</note></li>
        </ul></p>
      <p><?oxy_comment_start author="Steven" timestamp="20171214T111005+0200" comment="1.8 maybe. Radu will confirm"?>The
        downside of this approach is the fact that you will lose certain small fixes and patches
        that <ph keyref="product"/> adds to the automated DITA OT processing. For example, you may
        lose the ability to process DITA topics that contain entity references inside
        them.<?oxy_comment_end?></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
