<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/task.dtd">
<task id="uninstalling-standalone" >
    <title><?oxy_comment_start author="Steven" timestamp="20170511T104028+0300" comment="Merged into &quot;uninstall-application.dita&quot;. Moved to not_used folder."?>Uninstalling
    the <ph keyref="product"/> Standalone<?oxy_comment_end?></title>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <note type="caution">The following procedure will remove <ph keyref="product"/> from
        your system. <b>All data stored in the installation directory will be removed, including any
          customizations or any other data you have stored within that directory. Make a back up of
          any data you want to keep before uninstalling <ph keyref="product"/>.</b>
      </note>
        </context>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>Backup any data you want to keep from the <ph keyref="product"/> installation
          folder.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Remove the application.</cmd>
                <choices>
                    <choice>On Windows use the appropriate uninstaller shortcut provided with your
                        OS.</choice>
                    <choice>On OS X and Unix manually delete the installation folder and all its
            contents.</choice>
                </choices>
            </step>
            <step>
        <cmd>If you want to remove the user preferences:</cmd>
        <choices>
          <choice><b>On Windows Vista/7/8/10</b>, remove the directory: <ph product="editor"
                ><filepath>%APPDATA%\Roaming\com.oxygenxml</filepath></ph><ph product="author"
                ><filepath>%APPDATA%\Roaming\com.oxygenxml.author</filepath></ph><ph
              product="developer"
              ><filepath>%APPDATA%\Roaming\com.oxygenxml.developer</filepath></ph><ph
              product="svnClient"><filepath>%APPDATA%\Roaming\com.syncrosvnClient</filepath></ph>
            (usually <filepath>%APPDATA%</filepath> has the value:
              <filepath>[user-home-dir]\Application Data</filepath>). Note that this directory is
            hidden.</choice>
          <choice><b>On Windows XP</b>, remove the directory: <ph product="editor"
                ><filepath>%APPDATA%\com.oxygenxml</filepath></ph><ph product="author">
              <filepath>%APPDATA%\com.oxygenxml.author</filepath></ph><ph product="developer">
              <filepath>%APPDATA%\com.oxygenxml.developer</filepath></ph><ph product="svnClient"
                ><filepath>%APPDATA%\com.syncrosvnClient</filepath></ph> (usually
              <filepath>%APPDATA%</filepath> has the value: <filepath>[user-home-dir]\Application
              Data</filepath>).</choice>
          <choice><b>On Linux</b>, remove the directory: <ph product="editor"
                ><filepath>.com.oxygenxml</filepath></ph><ph product="author"
                ><filepath>.com.oxygenxml.author</filepath></ph><ph product="developer"
                ><filepath>.com.oxygenxml.developer</filepath></ph><ph product="svnClient"
                ><filepath>.com.syncrosvnClient</filepath></ph> from the user home
            directory.</choice>
          <choice><b>On OS X</b>, remove the directory: <ph product="editor"
                ><filepath>Library/Preferences/com.oxygenxml</filepath></ph><ph product="author"
                ><filepath>Library/Preferences/com.oxygenxml.author</filepath></ph><ph
              product="developer"
              ><filepath>Library/Preferences/com.oxygenxml.developer</filepath></ph><ph
              product="svnClient">
              <filepath>Library/Preferences/com.syncrosvnClient</filepath></ph> of the user home
            folder .</choice>
        </choices>
      </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>