<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="webauthor-customizing-content">
    <title><?oxy_comment_start author="Steven" timestamp="20170717T144638+0300" comment="Merged into &quot;customizing_frameworks.dita&quot;. Moved to not_used folder."?>Customizing
    Web Author for Your Content<?oxy_comment_end?></title>
    <body>
    <p>Concepts</p>
    <p>
      <ul id="ul_s4p_m5x_hz">
        <li>Your content is identified by a <term>document type</term></li>
        <li>Support for a <term>document type</term> is called a framework.</li>
        <li>Support for frameworks is pluggable. We have several ones builtin, some open source
          (JATS) or you can develop one yourself.</li>
        <li>If you are using a DITA specialization or a flavor of XHTML, you should extend the
          default framework</li>
        <li>If you are using a completely different format, you need to develop the framework
          yourself using the source code of the builtin frameworks</li>
      </ul>
    </p>
    <p>What you can configure<ul id="ul_hqk_55x_hz">
        <li>Document schema: e.g. spec de DITA</li>
        <li>Authoring experience: e.g. form controls, actions</li>
        <li>Inline editing </li>
        <li>Business rules</li>
        <li>file templates</li>
        <li>embedded formats</li>
        <li>Custom framework from scratch - the most complicated things are: custom actions and
          table support.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>Tutorial: How to extend a framework, test it with the Test Server and deploy it to Web
      Author. How to preserve it during upgrades.</p>
    <section id="section_fyg_1tx_hz">
      <title>Document schema</title>
    </section>
    <section id="section_j5g_25x_hz">
      <title>Authoring experience</title>
      <p>Actions, form controls, etc.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_grc_dtx_hz">
      <title>Business rules</title>
      <p>Content quality can be controlled with <b>business rules</b> that are related to either the
        document structure or the content itself. The former can be enforced using Schematron rules
        while the second can be enforced using a plugin provided by Acrolinx.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_fhy_2tx_hz">
      <title>Embedded formats</title>
      <p>Web Author supports embedded formats such as MathML, SVG, videos, and more using a flexible
        form-controls mechanism. </p>
      <p>Support for other embedded formats can be implemented by third parties. For example, WIRIS
        provides a plugin that can be used to edit MathML equations in a visual way.</p>
    </section>
    </body>
</topic>
